Host: I'm s‘u’re every“o”ne is familiar with this scenario: We make a commitment to doing something, say starting a diet, then we put it off indefinitely. Even Victor Hugo, the great French writer, couldn't finish a novel until the deadline was looming. He used to have his servants lock his clothes away in a closet to force himself to stay in his study and write. Almost two centuries later, and people are still procrastinating. So what causes us to put things off, and what can we do about it? Today we invite Dr. Jennifer Ford, a behavioral therapist, to help us tackle this problem. Hello Dr. Ford, welcome to the show.
Ford: Nice to be here!
Host: Now, procrastination is just the result of poor self-discipline, isn't it?
Ford: To ordinary people like you and me—probably; but some ancient philosophers thought differently. Plato and Socrates essentially believed that a person never chooses to act against their best interests. So if someone procrastinates—that is, makes a poor decision—then it must simply be because they don't know what's best for them.
Host: Well, I know that eating an extra doughnut isn't good for my diet, but I do it anyway. 
Ford: Modern psychology has a concept called time inconsistency to explain this contradiction. It means that our preferences aren't consistent over time. When we make future plans, we tend to value choices with long-term benefits, but when it comes to making a choice right now, we focus on immediate benefits, despite any long-term costs.
Host: Like I plan to lose weight in the future, but right now I want that doughnut, even though I know it'll make me fat?
Ford: Exactly. But you know, procrastination, it isn't always bad.
Host: How so?
Ford: I call it active procrastination. It's when we deliberately postpone things so as to use the pressure created by the deadline to motivate ourselves to work faster.
Host: It all boils down to whether one has self-discipline, then. 
Ford: It's more complicated than that. Back in the 1960s, there was a famous experiment which saw kids put in a room with one candy. The researcher told them that if they left the candy, they would get two candies at the end. 
Host: I presume some ate the candy, while the ones with more self-control waited?
Ford: That's right. But the researchers then tracked each child's progress over several years.
Host: Let me guess: The children who didn't eat the candy didn't have weight problems?
Ford: That was one finding. But they also performed better academically and socially, and generally seemed to thrive more in  life.
Host: Should I blame my DNA for my inability to overcome the temptation of that doughnut, then?
Ford: No. Self-discipline can be learned and developed. One strategy is to make rules that pair our present wants with our future needs. For instance, I could make a rule allowing myself ten minutes of video games after every hour of exercise. That way, what previously prevented me from working out now encourages me.
Host: That reminds me of the TV company that broadcast a "Thank-God-It's-Thursday" show. They invited viewers to relax with wine and snacks and watch their Thursday night programming.
Ford: So the TV station linked their shows with their viewers' desires? Clever!
Host: It sounds too much like brainwashing to me. Are there other ways to build self-discipline?
Ford: Of course. You should start small by making your habit so easy you can't say no...
[Fade out]
