GREAT BRITISH DRAWINGS



B · B﻿

Great British Drawings



2 · 2﻿


Colin Harrison

with Caroline Palmer, Katherine Wodehouse
& Harry Dickinson

Essays by Susan Owens & Timothy Wilcox

GREAT BRITISH
DRAWINGS

Ashmolean Museum
Oxford 2015



GREAT BRITISH DRAWINGS
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford
26 March – 31 August 2015

Exhibition supported by Lowell Libson Ltd
and The Friends of the Ashmolean

Catalogue © Ashmolean Museum, University of Oxford, 2015
Colin Harrison, Caroline Palmer, Katherine Wodehouse, Harry 
Dickinson, Susan Owens, and Timothy Wilcox have asserted their 
moral rights to be identified as the authors of this work.

British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library

ISBN 978 1 85444 296 3

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be transmitted 
in any form or by any means, electronic, or mechanical, including 
photocopy, recording or any storage and retrieval system, without 
prior permission in writing from the publisher.

Published by the Ashmolean Museum, University of Oxford
General Editor: Katherine Wodehouse
Designed and typeset in Verdigris by Dalrymple
Printed and bound in Belgium by Albe de Coker

Front cover: John Sell Cotman, A Ruined House, c. 1807–10 (cat. 33)
Back cover: Dante Gabriel Rossetti, Proserpine, 1871 (cat. 68)
Frontispiece: detail from Charles Ginner, Flask Walk: Rain,
c. 1924 (cat. 90)

For further details of Ashmolean titles please visit:
www.ashmolean.org/shop

 7 Foreword

 8 Acknowledgements

 11 Learning to Draw Susan Owens

 29 Questions of Identity: the Place of Watercolour
in British Art Timothy Wilcox

 43 British Drawings in the Ashmolean Museum
Colin Harrison

 53 Likeness, Sensibility & Vision

 1650–1830

 99 Travel & Topography

 The Golden Age of Watercolour

 161 Ruskin & the Pre-Raphaelites 

 Observation & Imagination

 221 Diversity & Conflict

 The Modernist Century

 289 Caricature & Satire

 A British Sense of Humour

 326 Bibliography

 330 Index



great british drawings · 7 


Foreword

The Ashmolean’s exceptional collections of drawings, 
watercolours, 
and prints are among its greatest treasures 
and no school is better represented than the British. 
This catalogue and the exhibition it accompanies 
celebrate this extraordinary richness with drawings 
ranging from Flemish artists working in England in the 
seventeenth century, to those created by contemporary 
British artists. One of the great pleasures of looking at 
drawings is their immediacy, the way in which they can 
reveal the artist’s working and thinking processes. It is 
not therefore surprising to find that artists themselves 
have often collected and treasured the drawings of their 
predecessors and peers.

The Ashmolean’s collection has at its heart the great 
collection of Raphael and Michelangelo drawings 
collected by Sir Thomas Lawrence. Among the British 
drawings is the notable donation by John Ruskin of 
his beloved Turner watercolours in 1861, as well as his 
extensive gifts to the Drawing School he established in 
1871, which were formally transferred to the Ashmolean 
after the Second World War. This year we are also thrilled 
to have received, through the Government’s Acceptance in 
Lieu scheme, the great portrait by Frank Auerbach of his 
wife, Julia, which was among the many drawings by 
the artist in the collection of Lucian Freud (cat.113).

Ruskin believed that art could change lives, 
encouraging the viewer to see his or her natural and 
man-made surroundings in a more constructive and 
sympathetic way, and that every member of the public 
deserved to enjoy great works of art; beliefs that continue 
to be upheld by the provision of the Museum’s Western 
Art Print Room. The exhibition of Great British Drawings 
has been selected by Colin Harrison, Senior Curator of 
European Art. Although drawn almost exclusively from 
the Ashmolean’s own collection we are delighted that 
two private collectors have lent works which perfectly 
complement our own holdings. Finally, it is a great 
privilege to be able to display three drawings from the 
collection of caricatures formed by Jeffrey Archer.

The exhibition would not have been possible without 
the substantial support of Lowell Libson Ltd and the 
Friends of the Ashmolean, to whom we extend much 
thanks. It forms the centrepiece of a British season over 
the coming summer, with associated exhibitions of Love 
Bites: Caricatures by James Gillray, and An Elegant Society: 
Adam Buck, an Artist in the Age of Jane Austen.

Xa Sturgis Director, Ashmolean Museum

Detail from Frank Auerbach,
Head of Julia (cat. 113)



Acknowledgements

This exhibition has been selected from the collection 
of some 10,000 British drawings and watercolours in 
the Ashmolean Museum. It opens with one of the most 
sensitive 
of all seventeenth century portraits, by the first 
great native-born English artist, Samuel Cooper, and 
closes with portraits by three of Britain’s most celebrated 
living artists, Frank Auerbach, David Hockney, and Tom 
Phillips. Between come a wide variety of landscapes and 
figure studies, portraits and still lifes, including drawings 
and watercolours, chosen on the grounds of quality 
and condition rather than solely for their historical 
importance. 
There are a number of prominent absentees: 
there is no Sandby or Varley, Lawrence or Constable, 
and a host of names working after the First World War. 
It is a particular cause of satisfaction that three private 
collectors have agreed to lend important works from their 
collections. 
The watercolours by John Robert Cozens 
and David Cox far eclipse any by these artists in the 
Ashmolean; and the works by Keith Vaughan, William 
Gear, Bryan Winter, Colin Self, and Cecil Collins enable 
us to show some of the many aspects of British art in the 
twentieth century. The loans of caricatures from Jeffrey 
Archer have been arranged through his personal assistant, 
Alison Prince, and through Chris Beetles. Finally, several 
items on long-term loan to the Ashmolean, from the 
Christopher Sands Trust and two anonymous collections, 
are included. We are greatly indebted to all these lenders. 

I am grateful to my three collaborators on the catalogue 
entries, Caroline Palmer, Katherine Wodehouse, 
and Harry Dickinson, and to the authors of the essays, 
Timothy Wilcox and Susan Owens. In addition to writing 
entries, Katherine Wodehouse has masterminded the 
production of the catalogue from beginning to end. We are 
indebted to David Gowers and Anne Holly for their expert 
photography, as well as to the work of Amy Taylor in our 
Picture Library. Eunice Lee assisted with third party image 
and rights acquisition. Thanks are likewise due to Robert 
Dalrymple, our catalogue designer. We also recognise the 
vital contribution of our Exhibitions and Design teams as 
well as our Registrars and Paper Conservators.

For help with particular artists, we are grateful to 
Alessia de Quincey, Tom Cain, Patrick Conner, Briony 
Llewellyn, Martyn Gregory, Susan Sloman, Sophie 
Bowness, and Timothy Wilcox. The whole exhibition 
has benefited immeasurably from the wise counsel of 
Lowell Libson. 

Colin Harrison Senior Curator of European Art

Detail from Edward Lear,
Constantinople from Ayoub (cat. 42)

8 · great british drawings



For centuries, drawing and learning have been closely 
connected. As a means of co-ordinating the mind and 
hand, and inculcating habits of observation, the practice of 
drawing was considered essential in preparing an artist for 
a career as a painter or sculptor. Consequently, the process 
of learning to draw remained at the heart of art academies 
from the sixteenth century until the third quarter of the 
twentieth. The most effective way of teaching artists to 
draw has not, however, been the subject of such universal 
accord. Each institution brought with it particular values 
and principles, dictating what students studied, how (and 
indeed if) they were taught, and the kinds of drawings 
they were expected to produce. Just as important as 
what went on inside these academies were the rebellions 
against them, when artists rejected institutional values 
and sought alternatives. The history of learning to draw 
is a vital thread in the narrative of British art, marked by 
a succession 
of conflicting theories and practices, power 
struggles and revolts.

England approached the concept of the art academy 
with caution.In Italy, by contrast, there had been an 
unbroken tradition of official institutions since the 
sixteenth century, with the foundation of the Accademia del 
Disegno in Florence in 1563 and the Accademia di S. Luca in 
Rome in 1593. In France, the Académie royale de peinture et 
de sculpture was established in 1648, a full 120 years before 
its English equivalent, the Royal Academy. The English 
attitude can be seen in a treatise on miniature painting 
written by the courtier Edward Norgate in the second 
quarter of the seventeenth century. He noted that on the 
Continent, there was ‘another way of Designing, that is by 
frequenting the Academy’ and, with the air of somebody 
explaining the faintly amusing activities of foreigners, 
described this academy as:

a Roome where in the middle, a hired Long sided Porter or such 
like is to be set, stand or hang naked sometimes in a posture 
for two or three howres. This fellow is surrounded by a number 
of Painters, who make him their Model, and drawe him as he 
appeares to every one. By this practice they pretend to greate skill 
in the naked Anatomy, and Muscles of the Body …1

Norgate was sceptical about the point of this practice, and 
related that no less an authority than Rubens had told him 

Learning to Draw

Susan Owens

Detail from George Richmond, 
‘Boswood’s Thigh’ and the right arm of 
Michelangelo’s ‘David’ (cat. 21)



that artists had been known to attend the Academy ‘for 
twenty Yeares together to little or noe purpose’.2

Rubens’s reservations presumably arose from his 
doubts about the usefulness of studying life-drawing in 
an academic vacuum, rather than as part of a process that 
would lead to a finished work.3 In contrast, Norgate’s 
were caused by his lack of familiarity. In England, from the 
Middle Ages until the eighteenth century, an artist would 
typically enter the studio of an established master as an 
apprentice, to be introduced to the range of tasks involved 
in that particular practice. Within this studio context, 
drawing would normally have been taught as a key skill in 
the planning of a painting or sculpture – but not privileged 
as an activity to be pursued separately. Signs of change 
came in the 1670s, when the highly successful portrait 
painter Peter Lely responded to an increasing number of 
requests from young artists to be taken on as apprentices 
by setting up an informal academy next door to his studio 
in Covent Garden.Here he supervised drawing from 
the life model.4 That established artists should take on 
students and teaching life drawing was the norm in Lely’s 
native Netherlands, and could be regarded as the expansion 
of an existing system rather than a departure from it.

At the same time, however, there was a growing awareness 
of the advantages of the situation on the Continent. 
As a consequence, a desire for a comparable system of art 
training in England began to be voiced. A drawing manual 
published in 1674 considers the widespread practice of 
drawing in foreign art schools, particularly in Rome, and 
advocates ‘a diligent and serious imitation, that the Art of 
Drawing and Painting here in England might flourish, as 
much as in any part beyond the Seas, not have any occasion 
to give precedency or pre-eminence to any foreign Artist 
whatsoever’.5 Towards the end of the seventeenth century, 
small schools or drawing classes began to emerge. Clubs 
such as the Society of the Virtuosi of St Luke and the Rose 
and Crown Club offered a professional arena for discussions 
concerning the state of the arts in England.

When the first formal academy opened in England, it 
was not a state institution with a hierarchical structure, 
as in France, but an organisation set up by artists and for 
artists, open to anyone on payment of a guinea’s subscription 
fee. The Great Queen Street Academy was established 
in 1711 in a house in the West End of London, with the 
illustrious portrait painter Sir Godfrey Kneller at its head. 
This new academy was designed to cater for a broad range 
of art professionals rather than one specific group; under 
Kneller, the twelve directors – elected by the members 
– included the portraitists Jonathan Richardson and 
Thomas Gibson, the pastellist Edward Luttrell, the history 
painters Louis Laguerre, Antonio Pellegrini and James 
Thornhill, the sculptor Francis Bird, and the engraver 
Nicholas Dorigny. The contemporary chronicler of the 
art world, George Vertue, remarked that many ‘excellent 
painters and Artists joynd to study there to cultivate 
knowledge in a more extensive way than had ever been 
before in England’.6 As well as the opportunity to draw 
from the life model, the Academy provided a professional 
and social forum for painters, sculptors and engravers, 
both established and aspiring, as well as visiting foreign 
artists. It reflected the increasing professionalization of 
the artist, and his growing status as a gentleman rather 
than a craftsman, and promised to be a cohesive and 
galvanising force for England’s painters and sculptors.

Following Continental practice, the human figure was 
the principal object of study at Great Queen Street. This 
focus became a sort of ideological pivot: building on the 
native tradition of portraiture, it also fostered a knowledge 
of anatomy, and thus potentially raised standards by 
making figures as convincing as faces. Horace Walpole’s 
complaint that Richardson, one of the most successful 
portraitists of the era, ‘drew nothing well below the head 
… His attitudes, draperies, and backgrounds are totally 
insipid and unmeaning’ suggests that the lack of such 
training was indeed something of a disadvantage.7 At the 
same time, the centrality of the life model at the Academy 
seemed to signal a national ambition to progress beyond 
the portrait to subject pictures, both secular and religious, 
for which competence in drawing the human figure in a 
range of expressive poses was the essential building block. 
The market for such pictures was now so strong that 
foreign paintings were being imported in large numbers to 
meet the demand. English artists needed to compete with 
these imports, and putting the human figure at the heart 
of the first native academy indicated an intention to do 
just that.

One of the roles of the Academy’s directors was to 
establish the life model’s pose. Vertue mentions how one 
of them, Pelligrini, who ‘drew very often’ at the Academy, 
‘had an extraordinary readynes in setting the moddel 
well’.8 This role was more important than it might at first 
appear. Not only could a model be positioned in ways that 
were useful for an artist planning a subject picture, but his 
pose could also convey elevated cultural references. A life 
drawing by Kneller himself records a model whose pose 
emulates a figure painted by Annibale Carracci on a ceiling 
in the Palazzo Farnese in Rome – illustrating the ways in 
which Old Master compositions were brought to bear on 
academic training (fig. 1).9

The Academy in Great Queen Street does not seem 
to have offered formal instruction, although advice was 
freely given by its members. Vertue relates how the young 
Joseph Highmore, later to become a painter of portraits 
and conversation pieces, ‘came into the accademy under 
Sr. G. Kneller about ye 3d or fourth Year after it was sett 
up’. He noted that Highmore’s ‘continual application 
improv’d him much in the fundamentals of that Science, 
his daily access to all the eminent Artists & their free 
communicateing to him their instructions … was of great 
advantage to his improvement without much cost or 
expence’, giving a sense of the collaborative atmosphere 
that prevailed in the early academy.10

Theories of art training were much discussed at this 
time. In the early 1720s Vertue himself set out a scheme in 
his notebook for an academy and drawing school ‘For the 
Improvement of the ART of Delineing in this NATION’.11 
Vertue’s attendance at Kneller’s Academy from its 
foundation in 1711 had shaped his experience of art 
training, although whether his ideas reflected aspects of 
the existing system or sought to complement what was 
possibly a rather laissez-faire one is debatable. In any case, 
his proposed course was certainly more rigorous than 
that offered at Great Queen Street. Vertue believed in a 
progressive system, derived from contemporary drawing 
manuals, in which students worked diligently through a 
number of stages. This began with copying, and Vertue 
recommended that the school should be equipped with 
exemplary drawings of the ‘Rudiments’ that every student 
should emulate: ‘Eys nose mouth facces hands feet &c. 
Arms leggs bodies each being pasted on a Cartoon’ (a large 
sheet of paper so that they could be propped up and to 
make them durable).
12 The next step was for the student to 
‘copy drawings that are done after statues, Busts or Casts, 
described on Grey paper or Blew hightned with black and 
white only’.13 It was only after this stage – which ‘may consist 
of 50 drawings all which must be copyd carefully’ – that 
the student would be permitted to draw casts of Antique 
sculpture.14 Vertue’s proposed school is particularly 
interesting for its principle that the student should initially 
learn to draw by looking at other drawings, rather than 
working out his own way of representing objects on paper. 
Presumably the intention was to inculcate particular 
methods of outlining, hatching and shading.

Although they apparently managed to avoid so rigorous 
a curriculum, the Great Queen Street Academy and its 
successors created a climate in which artists were able 
to establish a common vocabulary for drawing. Whereas 
through the apprenticeship system an artist would learn 
the stylistic traits of his immediate master, an academy 
fostered the ideal conditions in which to share ideas 
about drawing methods and techniques more widely. This 
was partly achieved through the provision of exemplary 
drawings. When in 1720 another academy was in the 
process of being set up, Vertue proposed that each director 
should ‘give or present to the Accademy, one Accademy 
figure of his own Drawing there in that Accademy done. to 
be kept or preserved by the Treasurer. in one large Cover 
folio & for that purpose provided only’.15 A drawing by 
Jonathan Richardson of ‘James Figg the Gladiator’, who, 


Fig. 1 | Godfrey Kneller (1646–1723), Seated male nude, c. 1711.
Black chalk on blue paper. British Museum, London, 1888,0719.71 
© Trustees of the British Museum




as well as posing for artists, ran an academy of arms, was 
probably a demonstration drawing of this kind, made in 
1714 for the Great Queen Street Academy (cat. 6).16 As 
might be expected of a drawing by a portraitist, this study 
represents a distinct individual, rather than a generic 
muscular body. It is likely that such exemplary drawings 
of nudes were supplemented by established artists’ 
working drawings. There is evidence that Kneller took the 
head studies he made as preparation for his portraits into 
the Academy for students to study and copy.17

In 1720 the Great Queen Street Academy was superseded 
by a new institution just off St Martin’s Lane, set 
up by Louis Chéron and John Vanderbank. Both artists 
had attended the Great Queen Street Academy from its 
inception, and Vertue records that Chéron’s ‘talent in 
delineing’ was ‘soon distinguishd’ and that his drawings 
were ‘much immitated by the Young people’.18 Born in 
Paris, Chéron had been trained at the French Académie. 
Here his drawings had been so admired that he was twice 
awarded the Prix de Rome. Emphatically hatched to create 
the illusion of volumetric form, his powerful, heroic 
nudes introduced an unprecedented rigour to academic 
drawing in England (fig. 2). Although influential, 
Chéron’s French drawing style was not, however, universally 
admired; Vertue, for instance, found his drawings 
‘generally heavy’.19

It appears that Chéron and Vanderbank introduced 
the practice of employing female as well as male models 
– to make the academy ‘more inviting to subscribers’, 
as Hogarth suggested, perhaps not entirely seriously.20 
This put the new academy in the vanguard, as those on the 
Continent did not employ female models until nearly 100 
years later.21 However, it closed after only four years, in 
1724, when Vanderbank was obliged to leave the country 
in order to avoid imprisonment for debt.

In the same year Sir James Thornhill, who had previously 
taken over the governorship of the Great Queen 
Street Academy from Kneller, set up a free drawing 
academy in a room in his own home in Covent Garden.22 
This was eventually succeeded in 1735 by the ‘second’ St 
Martin’s Lane Academy, founded by Thornhill’s son-in-law 
William Hogarth and the portrait painter John Ellys, with 
the ‘neglected apparatus’ Hogarth had inherited from the 
older artist.23 Vertue noted: ‘this Winter 1735 an Accademy 
for Life sett up in St Martins lane where several Artists go 
to Draw from the life. Mr Hogarth principally promotes 
or undertakes it’.24 Hogarth himself described how, in ‘a 
room big enough for a naked figure to be drawn after by 
thirty or forty people’, he provided ‘a proper table for the 
figure to stand on a large lamp iron stove and benches in a 
circular form’.25 A painting by Johann Zoffany representing 
the academy’s room reveals the configuration of the 
space, how the nude figure was lit and, on an upper shelf, 
the plaster busts that could serve in the absence of a life 
model (fig. 3). It was, Hogarth later declared, ‘as perfect an 
academy as any in Europe’.26

Hogarth was an unlikely founder of an art academy. 
In his treatise The Analysis of Beauty, published in 1753, he 
voiced his scepticism about the effectiveness of academic 
training, citing the example of ‘those gentilmen who have 
labour’d with the utmost assiduity abroad surrounded 
with the works of the great masters, and at home at 
academys for twenty years together without gaining the 
least ground’; indeed, he added ominously, ‘nay, some have 
rather gon backwards’. Instead, he advocated the simple 
habit of being observant: ‘if I have acquired anything in my 
way it has been wholly obtain’d by Observation by which 
method be where I would with my Eyes open I could have 
been at my studys’.27

Nothing if not patriotic, Hogarth was incensed at the 
thought of English artists travelling abroad to study when 
England could produce its own home-grown facilities:

Everything requisite to compleat the consummate painter or 
sculptor may be had with the utmost ease without going out of 
London at this time going to study abroad is an errant farce and 
more likely to confound a true genious than to improve him do 
skyes look more like skies trees more like tree[s] 28

What distinguished his own academy from what he 
called the ‘pompous parading one at paris’ was its lack of 
hierarchy.29 Indeed, Hogarth stated that he ‘became an 
equal subscriber with the rest signifying at the same time 
that superior and inferior among artists should be avoided 
especially in this country’.30

In contrast to the French Académie, where a disciplinarian 
oligarchy dictated an approved manner of drawing, 
no particular drawing style was imposed at St Martin’s 
Lane. In fact Hogarth even quoted with approval Voltaire’s 
observation that ‘after that establishment [the Académie] 
no work of genious appeard for says he they all became 
imitators and mannerists’.31 The democratic ethos instilled 
by Hogarth in the St Martin’s Lane Academy created the 
conditions for free-style drawing based on observation 
rather than on academic formulae. Hogarth’s own life 
drawings are decidedly sensuous in comparison with 
Chéron’s, representing the bodies and faces of individual 
models rather than stereotyped figures (fig. 4). When he 
voiced a preference for a ‘blooming young girl of fifteen’ to 
the ‘stony features of a … venus’, Hogarth was pitting an 
English sensibility and toleration of individuality against 
the severe classical tradition promoted by Chéron.32

The portrait painter Allan Ramsay was also a member 
at St Martin’s Lane. Like many artists of his generation, 
he had made an extended visit to Rome, and studied at 
the French Academy, which was open to visiting students 
for life-drawing classes. His drawing of a female nude 
(cat. 8), although probably made during a later trip to Italy 
in the 1750s, is a sensitive study, softly modelled in chalks. 
If Ramsay brought a French sensibility to his drawing, it 
was the lively sensuality of Boucher rather than the formal 
academicism of Chéron.

In the 1750s and early 1760s other arenas for drawing 
emerged in London.One of these was the Duke of 
Richmond’s sculpture gallery in Whitehall, which opened 
in 1758. Here students had access to a treasure trove 
of casts of classical statuary and made drawings under 
the guidance of the sculptor Joseph Wilton and the 
Florentine decorative painter Giovanni Battista Cipriani. 


Fig. 2 | Louis Chéron (1660–1725), Kneeling male nude seen from behind, 
c. 1720–4. Black and white chalk on grey paper. British Museum, London, 
1953,1021.11.83 © Trustees of the British Museum
Fig. 3 | Johann Zoffany (1733–1810), A Life Class at St Martin’s Lane Academy, 
1761–2. Oil on canvas, unfinished. Royal Academy of Arts, London, 03/621 
© Royal Academy of Arts, London


Fig. 4 | William Hogarth (1697–1764), Seated female nude, c. 1720–4. 
Black and white chalk on grey paper. British Museum, London, 
1960,0409.113 © Trustees of the British Museum




Another was a drawing school with large premises in 
Beaufort Buildings on the Strand, run between 1754 and 
1761 by William Shipley, founder of the Society for the 
Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce. 
He favoured a broad-based drawing course, which 
extended beyond the life class and was aimed at the 
education of future designers and craftsmen, with the 
intention of assisting ‘such manufactures as require Fancy 
and Ornament, and for which the knowledge of Drawing 
is absolutely necessary’.33 Shipley’s pupils included John 
Hamilton Mortimer, Richard Cosway, Ozias Humphry, 
Joseph Nollekens, and William Pars.

It might have seemed that there had never been more 
varied opportunities for young artists to study. Yet the 
establishment of the Royal Academy in 1768 had the effect 
of channelling this momentum, expressive of the growth 
and confidence of a British school, into a narrower course. 
For the first time, the new institution offered the opportunity 
to study from the antique and from the life under the 
same roof. It also introduced a hierarchical system and a 
strict degree of control over admission and student practice 
that had not previously been seen in English art education.

In an address to mark the official opening of the Royal 
Academy of Arts in January 1769, its first President, Joshua 
Reynolds, was immensely unflattering about the state of art 
education in Britain.‘One advantage’, he said, ‘I will venture 
to affirm, we shall have in our Academy, which no other 
nation can boast. We shall have nothing to unlearn.’34 
Complaining about the standard of drawing at other 
schools of art, and no doubt thinking of the St Martin’s 
Lane Academy, he said

… the Students never draw exactly from the living models which 
they have before them. It is not indeed their intention; nor are 
they directed to do it. Their drawings resemble the model only in 
the attitude. They change the form according to their vague and 
uncertain ideas of beauty, and make a drawing rather of what they 
think the figure ought to be, than of what it appears.35

This was more or less the same point made by Hogarth in 
1753, although Reynolds expressed it with more rhetorical 
panache. The practice of observation, it seems, was not 
straightforward.

Surprisingly little was put in writing at this stage about 
the aims of the Royal Academy, beyond the founder 
members’ intention, expressed in a petition presented to 
George III in November 1768, to provide ‘a well-regulated 
School or Academy of Design’.36 But it was perhaps 
inevitable that an organisation on this scale would demand 
a more rigorous discipline than had been imposed at either 
Great Queen Street or St Martin’s Lane. This discipline 
found its expression in the imposition of a two-tier system 
in the Academy. First, a student had to be accepted as 
a Probationer, after which he was required to submit a 
finished drawing from one of the casts, and annotated 
drawings of an écorché figure and a skeleton (fig. 5). If the 
Probationer’s drawings were approved, he would then 
receive a student’s ticket and be enrolled in the Antique 
Academy, where:

There shall be Weekly, set out in the Great Room, One or more 
Plaister Figures by the Keeper, for the Students to draw after, and 
no Student shall presume to move the said Figures out of the said 
Places where they have been set by the Keeper, without his leave 
first obtained for that Purpose. 
When any student hath taken possession of a Place in the 
Plaister Academy, he shall not be removed out of it, till the Week 
in which he hath taken it is expired.37

The system posited the antique as the first stage of a 
progressive system. For the first time, the student was 
obliged to spend a considerable period drawing from 
casts of classical sculpture in the Antique Academy (fig. 6). 
Only when he had submitted satisfactory drawings was he 
admitted to the Life Room. As Benjamin West, Reynolds’s 
successor as President, put it, proficiency was ‘not to be 
gained by rushing impatiently to the school of the living 
model; correctness of form and taste was first to be sought 
by an attentive study of the Grecian figures’.38

For Reynolds, the antique was the lifeblood of artistic 
excellence:

The principal advantage of an Academy is, that … it will be a 
repository for the great examples of the Art … By studying these 
authentick models, that idea of excellence which is the result of the 
accumulated experience of past ages, may be at once acquired’.39 

He invested these exemplary works with properties that 
were all but magical, believing that they enabled the student 
to receive ‘at one glance, the principles which many 
Artists have spent their whole lives in ascertaining.40

The rigidly structured nature of the Royal Academy, 
in which students began their training in the Antique 

Fig. 5 | Edward William Frost (1810–1877), Annotated study of a skeleton, 
c. 1829. Graphite on paper. Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 
E.424–1948 © Victoria and Albert Museum, London



Fig. 6 | Edward Francis Burney (1760–1848), The Antique School at New Somerset 
House, c. 1780. Pen and ink with watercolour on paper. Royal Academy of Arts, 
London, 03/7484 © Royal Academy of Arts, London




Academy and were eventually examined for their fitness 
to draw from the living model, was a force for conformity. 
Students were expected to produce drawings that demonstrated 
their ability to represent the subtle gradations 
of light and shadow on three-dimensional forms – and, 
because of the element of competition, they strove to make 
their works fit this requirement. An inscription on a work 
of about 1800 by William Mulready (fig. 7) records that the 
drawing was submitted ‘For permission to draw from the 
living model’, and it exemplifies the painstaking modelling 
that was most likely to earn the artist a passport to the Life 
Room. Strokes of the chalk have been smoothed out with a 
stump, a tool of rolled leather or paper, and gestural marks 
indicative of individual draughtsmanship suppressed. 
There was no room in the system for the rapid sketch or 
the exploratory study.

Nonetheless, while the rules engendered a climate of 
conformity, the teaching offered by the Royal Academy 
was not particularly rigorous. Indeed, in his inaugural 
address Reynolds had spoken favourably of what he 
called ‘an atmosphere of floating knowledge’, in which 
students learned principally from one another.41 In terms 
of tuition, 
the Academy had a system of ‘Visitors’ who 
taught in rotation. Nine Royal Academicians were elected 
annually to fulfil this role, which demanded that for one 
month each year they would attend the Antique Academy 
or the Life Room to supervise the students’ drawings and, 
in the latter case, to set the model’s pose.

It was a system that militated against consistency. One 
Visitor discouraged strong outlines, and, according to an 
account of 1803, even erased them when he found them in 
a student’s work:

… if by chance a student made an error in his drawing by too 
powerful an outline or too marked a development of muscular 
action, Mr Wilton would gently come up to the draughtsman’s 
side, and collecting his delicately white ruffles between the tips 
of his fingers and the palm of his hand, begin to rub over the 
offending parts, smudging the white with the black chalk, saying, 
‘I do not see those lines in the figure before you’.42

The approach of the Swiss-born artist Henry Fuseli, 
appointed Keeper of the Royal Academy in 1804, presented 
a stark contrast. Fuseli was moved to intervene 
decisively when he detected a student too greatly absorbed 
in producing fine degrees of shading:

Woe to the poor student who depended on his elaborate finishing. 
After having been a week or ten days working up his drawing 
with the softest chalk, stumping, dotting, stippling, until he had 
nearly worn his eyes out, the Keeper would stealthily come behind 
him, and looking over his shoulder would grasp the porte-crayon, 
and, standing at arm’s length from the drawing, would give so 
terrific a score as to cut through the paper and leave a distinct 
outline on the board beneath; and then would say, by way of 
encouragement to future exertion, ‘There, Saar, there, you should 
have a boldness of handling and a greater fwreedom of tooch’.43

Nevertheless, in general, Royal Academy drawings were 
expected to be carefully shaded – a style that was compatible 
with the smooth surface quality of plaster casts, but 
that also conformed to an early nineteenth-century taste 
in oil paintings. Because of its versatility, the material 
most often used for students’ drawings was black chalk. 
Dense enough to be sharpened to a point and used for 
linear work, it was also capable of broad, sculptural effects 
and could be rubbed with a stump to create subtle tonal 
gradations.

A student needed to have attained a high standard of 
proficiency in drawing before the Royal Academy would 
admit him, and as a result a number of private art schools 
were established which offered preparatory tuition.One 
of the best known was run by Henry Sass from premises 
in Charlotte Street, where William Powell Frith, William 
Holman Hunt and Dante Gabriel Rossetti all studied. Sass 
had unshakable confidence in his abilities, once claiming: 
‘I met [David] Wilkie, and he said to me, “Sass, you could 
teach a stone to draw;” and SO IT IS’.44 Sass offered a 
disciplined elementary course in which students began by 
drawing outlines and eventually progressed to drawing 
from the round. Even then, the first object to be drawn 
was a huge plaster ball, ‘by the representation of which in 
Italian chalk and on white paper’, wrote Frith, a student 
in the 1830s, ‘the student was to be initiated into the first 
principles of light, shadow, and rotundity.’45 Only when 
he had mastered the ‘awful ball’ was the student permitted 
to progress to ‘a gigantic bunch of plaster grapes’ and, 
eventually, to casts of classical sculpture.46 It was a long 
and arduous process.

Hunt too recalled the intensely disciplined drawing 
technique that was taught at Sass’s, which imitated the 
‘dot-and-lozenge’ method found in eighteenth-century 
line engravings:

Many students who worked there shaded their drawings with 
the most regular cross hatching, putting a dot in every empty 
space; thus the figure was blocked out into flat angular surfaces, 
which, ultimately blended by half-tints, produced the required 
modelling47

Such discipline paid off when it came to applying to the 
Academy. As Hunt recalled, ‘Sasse’s [sic] school in particular 
was recommended by Academicians, and the drawings 
that issued from it, with their mechanical precision, 
were favoured by the examiners’.48 Not only did Sass’s 
insistence on rigorous cross-hatching and stippling drum 
the grammar of drawing into the student, but it was also 
intended to instil discipline – although on many talented 
but independently minded students, such as Rossetti, it 
must have had the opposite effect.

A comment later made by John Everett Millais suggests 
that at the Royal Academy, the style and ‘finished’ quality 
of a drawing eventually began to be valued at the expense 
of its accuracy – a weakness that was exposed when the 
student moved to the Life Room:

We find students straight from the Antique school, who have 
drawn the Gladiator and Apollo most correctly and admirably, 
quite incapable of drawing the living model, because they cannot 
draw well enough, yet it is only too common to find modest faithfulness 
to nature ignored for the work which seems to say – ‘see 
how well I am drawn, and how much learning there is in me’.49

The apparently simple principle expressed by Reynolds 
at the outset, that students should draw, not ‘what they 
think the figure ought to be’, but what ‘appears’, seemed to 
remain tantalisingly out of reach.

From the early seventeenth century to the early 
twentieth, British artists avidly sought out Old Master 
prints and drawings, incorporating the subjects, styles 
and techniques they found in them into their own work. 
Lely, Richardson, Reynolds and Thomas Lawrence, each 
of whom played an important role in the development 
of a national school, all assembled great collections. As 
time went on and a powerful Establishment became more 
entrenched, artists began to look beyond the accepted 
canon, finding in certain Old Masters an authoritative 
alternative to the status quo. This is vividly illustrated by 
William Blake’s famous annotations to Reynolds’s Works, 
which begin on the title page with his furious accusation: 
‘This Man was Hired to Depress Art’. A few pages later 
Blake describes the following encounter with George 
Michael Moser, the first Keeper of the Royal Academy 
Schools:

I was once looking over the Prints from Rafael & Michael 
Angelo. in the Library of the Royal Academy Moser came to 
me & said You should not Study these old Hard Stiff & Dry 
Unfinished Works of Art, Stay a little & I will shew you what you 
should Study. He then went & took down Le Bruns & Rubens’s 
Galleries. How I did secretly Rage. I also spoke my Mind … 
I said to Moser, These things that you call Finished are not Even 
Begun how can they then, be Finished? The Man who does not 
know The Beginning, never can know the End of Art.50

Blake himself had initially learned to draw not at the Royal 
Academy, but at Pars’s drawing school and as an apprentice 
to the engraver James Basire, and his linear drawing 
style in part resulted from this training. Nonetheless, even 
as a youth he had acquired prints after Michelangelo and 
Raphael, who, as his altercation with Moser suggests, 
were, together with Albrecht Dürer, his great artistic 


Fig. 7 | William Mulready (1786–1863), Study of a plaster cast of the Pancrastinae, 
c. 1800. Black and white chalk on grey-green paper. Victoria and Albert 
Museum, London, 6000 © Victoria and Albert Museum, London




heroes. The powerful contours of Michelangelo’s figures 
in particular were a vital source of inspiration for Blake 
in the development of his own intense vision. Blake knew 
the works of these masters largely through the medium of 
engravings; they fed back into his belief in the power of the 
crisp outline, by which he distinguished the good from the 
corrupt: ‘the more distinct and sharp and wiry the bounding 
line, the more perfect the work of art; and the less keen 
and sharp this external line, the greater is the evidence of 
weak imitative plagiarism and bungling … Leave out this 
line and you leave out life itself.’51

In the last three years of his life, Blake transmitted 
his reverence for Michelangelo and Dürer to a group 
of idealistic young artists, including Samuel Palmer, 
Edward Calvert, and George Richmond. They called 
themselves ‘the Ancients’, despising what they regarded as 
the pomposity and conventionality of contemporary art, 
and seeking more authentic models to help them define 
their own artistic identity. Blake became an inspirational 
figure for the group, whose members sought to emulate 
his idiosyncratic vision as much as the Old Masters he 
discussed with them.

Palmer was one of the most inventive and least conventional 
draughtsmen of his generation.His most fertile 
period as an artist, from the mid-1820s to the mid-1830s, 
coincided with his residence in the secluded village of 
Shoreham in Kent. The hills and lanes of this place, his 
‘valley of vision’, inspired him to create some of the most 
intense and numinous landscape drawings in the whole 
of English art (cat. 22). These works were deeply informed 
by his knowledge of masters, both old and new. Notes in a 
sketchbook of 1824 find Palmer mulling over the problems 
of representing natural forms: ‘Though I hope we shall all 
be severe outlinists, I hope our styles of outline may all be 
different as the design of Michael Angelo from his equal, 
Blake, and the outline of Albert Dürer from that of Andrea 
Mantegna. There is no line in nature, though excessive 
sharpness.’52 Another mentor, the artist John Linnell, 
encouraged him to look specifically at prints by Dürer and 
Lucas van Leyden, and in the same sketchbook Palmer 
made drawings of natural forms with the fine wiry lines 
and stippling strokes he had learned from engravings by 
these masters (fig. 8).

The impact of Michelangelo on British artists in 
this period can be seen in a drawing of 1828 by another 
‘Ancient’, George Richmond, which juxtaposes studies 
of the muscular thigh of a male model with one of the 
right arm of Michelangelo’s David (cat. 21). This is an 
unconventional 
drawing for the period, not shaded like 
the approved kind of academic study, but an incisive and 
detailed study of musculature. It emulates studies by 
Michelangelo himself, which Richmond must have seen 
in the collection of Sir Thomas Lawrence, President of 
the Royal Academy – not only in its fine hatching and 
attention to contour, but also in its partial use of red chalk, 
a material that was strongly associated with drawings 
by Italian Renaissance artists. With a different chemical 
make-up from black chalk, red was almost indelible, and 
so, although ideal for representing flesh tones, it was 
seldom used in nineteenth-century Britain for academic 
studies. With this accomplished drawing Richmond 
measured himself against the Renaissance figure who, 
for him and his fellow Ancients, was among the greatest 
masters of all.

If, for Blake, Reynolds was the man ‘Hired to Depress 
Art’, for Dante Gabriel Rossetti and his fellow members 
of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood in the mid-nineteenth 
century he was simply ‘Sir Sloshua’. They despised the tired 
academic conventions he represented. Rather than his 
lofty generalisations, they were interested in the specific, 
the detailed, the localised. As their name suggests, they 
found what they were looking for in non-canonical masters: 
artists of the early Renaissance, little regarded at the 
time and known as ‘Primitives’. A key source of inspiration 
was a volume of engravings by Carlo Lasinio, Pitture a 
fresco del Campo Santo di Pisa, published in 1828, which 
reproduced frescoes by Benozzo Gozzoli and Giotto 
among others. William Holman Hunt later described 
these images of fourteenth and fifteenth-century frescoes 
as being ‘remarkable for incident derived from attentive 
observation of inexhaustible Nature’.53 As well as mining 
these prints for figure types and compositional ideas, 
the Pre-Raphaelites were also struck by their linearity – 
although this was more characteristic of the engravings 
than of the original frescoes. Even so, the linear outlines 
that they associated with early Renaissance art touched a 
vital chord, offering the group an exciting alternative to 
the soft chiaroscuro which – after Raphael – still exerted 
a powerful force on British art, especially at the Royal 
Academy Schools. Millais and Rossetti in particular both 
exploited the capacity of pen and ink to create compelling 
and complex linear drawings, whether for portraits or 
book illustrations (fig. 9 and cats 64 and 66).

The other key influence for Rossetti, and for his 
follower Edward Burne-Jones, was Albrecht Dürer. When 
Rossetti first met Burne-Jones in 1856, he described the 
younger artist’s drawings in a letter to William Bell Scott 
as ‘marvels of finish & imaginative detail, unequalled 
by anything except perhaps Albert Dürer’.54 In the late 
1850s, and encouraged by Ruskin, both artists produced 
extraordinarily detailed drawings on medieval themes 
which closely emulated the elaborate detail of Dürer’s line 
engravings (cat. 71). The materials that Burne-Jones used 
for these drawings combined the archaic with the modern.
He drew with a fine steel nib of the kind that came into 
common use in the 1830s, and which alone could produce 
the needle-sharp lines he sought; but he drew on sheets of 
vellum, which has a smoother surface than paper and so is 
capable of receiving finer detail – and which brought with 
it connotations of medieval manuscripts.

Unlike the members of the Pre-Raphaelite 
Brotherhood, Burne-Jones had little formal training 
beyond attending evening classes at the Birmingham 
School of Design and, once in London, life classes at the 
private art school run by James Matthews Leigh. As an 
artist outside the ‘system’, he had less immediate need 
to rebel against it; and in the absence of any sustained 
academic training, he looked to Old Master drawings, 
studying them both at London exhibitions and during 
visits to Italy, and incorporated styles and techniques 
derived from them into his work. He was also an avid 
collector of photographs, to which he evidently referred in 
his studio practice. As he wrote to a friend who had offered 
to procure some for him: ‘I want them all. Select some 
for me, will you … choose as you would for yourself. You 
know what I like – all helpful pieces of modeling and sweet 
head-drawing, and nakeds by Leonardo and M. Angelo 
and Raphael.’55

Burne-Jones’s knowledge of Old Master drawings 
occasionally even prompted him to emulate them by 
experimenting with metalpoint, a medium commonly 
used by artists of the early Renaissance, but which had 
been more or less abandoned at the beginning of the sixteenth 
century. Metalpoint involves drawing with a stylus 
(usually an alloy of silver) on paper specially prepared with 
a slightly abrasive coating, often attractively coloured. 
Burne-Jones’s life drawing of Antonia Caiva (cat. 76) has 


Fig. 8 | Samuel Palmer (1805–1881), Studies of leaves from a sketch-book, c. 1824. 
Pen and brown ink on paper. British Museum, London, 1964,1104.1.14 
© Trustees of the British Museum


Fig. 9 | Sir John Everett Millais (1829–1896), The Race Meeting, 
or The Gambler, 1853. Pen and black ink on off-white paper. 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, WA1947.335




a metalpoint base, but he has subsequently gone over 
most of the contours with graphite, a material capable of 
a richer, more emphatic line. More often than working in 
the rather intractable medium of metalpoint itself, Burne-
Jones resorted in the early 1870s to using a hard grade of 
graphite. Sharpened to a fine point, such graphite could 
imitate the crisp contours and pale silvery lines associated 
with Florentine drawings (cat. 75).

The man who helped to foster Burne-Jones’s love of 
Italian art, taking him on his first visit to Italy in 1862, 
was John Ruskin, the most influential art critic of the 
nineteenth century. In contrast to Hogarth, Ruskin was 
a born pedagogue: his entire mission might be summed 
up as a determination to instil a knowledge and love of 
art in the British people. Yet, paradoxically, he had no 
desire to create artists. Although in the 1850s he taught 
drawing at the Working Men’s College in London, and 
in 1871 founded his own Drawing School in Oxford, he 
wanted less to teach drawing than to train his students in 
the appreciation of works of art and habits of observation.
In the preface to his manual The Elements of Drawing (1857), 
Ruskin claimed that he ‘would rather teach drawing that 
my pupils may learn to love Nature, than teach the looking 
at Nature that they may learn to draw’.56

Ruskin’s teaching methods were unconventional. 
When William Bell Scott visited the drawing class at 
the Working Men’s College he was shocked by what he 
found: students bent over desks ‘trying to put on small 
pieces of paper imitations by pen and ink of pieces of 
rough stick crusted with dry lichens!’.57 He was baffled 
that they should waste their time labouring over such 
trifles when they could have been drawing conventional 
art school props such as ‘beautiful ornamental objects’ or 
the human figure.58 Ruskin would have replied that Scott 
was missing the point. For him, nature in any form was 
worth studying, and drawing was the most certain route 
to understanding it.

A student’s account of these classes gives a vivid 
impression of Ruskin’s enthusiasm and lateral thinking, 
not to mention his generosity:

For one pupil he would put a cairngorm pebble or fluor-spar 
into a tumbler of water, and set him to trace their tangled veins 
of crimson and amethyst. For another he would bring lichen and 
fungi from Anerley Woods. Once, to fill us with despair of colour, 
he bought a case of West Indian birds unstuffed, as the collector 
had stored them, all rubies and emeralds. Sometimes it was a 
fifteenth-century Gothic missal, when he set us counting the order 
of the coloured leaves in each spray of the MS. At other times it was 
a splendid Albert Dürer woodcut … One by one, he brought for us 
to examine his marvels of water-colour art from Denmark Hill 59

For Ruskin, a student’s drawing style was unimportant 
beside his close observation of these glorious examples of 
art and nature. When it came to gathering visual material 
for use at his Drawing School in Oxford, Ruskin assembled 
a characteristically eclectic group of prints, drawings, 
photographs and watercolours. He also added many 
of his own drawings; some had been made many years 
previously, others he made especially for the School. Such 
exemplars were in stark contrast to the classical sculptures 
at the Royal Academy, and to the casts of ornament and 
other didactic material to be found in the government 
schools of design.

Ruskin’s passionate belief in the artist’s obligation 
to record the actual detail of natural form, rather than 
to represent it in conventional terms, was born out of 
personal experience. He recorded an epiphany in his 
unconventional autobiography, Præterita:

… one day on the road to Norwood, I noticed a bit of ivy round a 
thorn stem, which seemed, even to my critical judgement, not ill 
‘composed’; and proceeded to make a light and shade pencil study 
of it in my grey paper pocket-book [ … ] When it was done, I saw 
that I had virtually lost all my time since I was twelve years old, 
because no one had ever told me to draw what was really there! All 
my time, I mean, given to drawing as an art; of course I had the 
records of places, but had never seen the beauty of anything, not 
even of a stone – how much less of a leaf!60

For Ruskin, the focal point of art, from being distant and 
ideal, rushed to the foreground. In his landscapes, the 
particular takes precedence over the general to the extent 
that scale can be hard to establish: what at first appears 
to be a distant forest might turn out to be a wild strawberry 
plant. A drawing he made of gneiss rock (fig. 10) 
at Glenfinlas in 1853 took by his own account about two 
months to complete, reflecting his painstaking attention 

Fig. 10 | John Ruskin (1819–1900), Study of Gneiss Rock, Glenfinlas, 1853–4. 
Lampblack, bodycolour and pen and ink over graphite on wove paper, with 
some scratching out. Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, WA.RS.REF.089




to the smallest detail of natural form – which was precisely 
the basis of his educational mission.

The Professorship of Fine Art at Oxford, which Ruskin 
took up in 1869, was funded by a generous bequest made 
by the wealthy art collector Felix Slade. At University 
College London, Slade not only founded another 
Professorship, but also an institution that would change 
the course of drawing in Britain: the Slade School of 
Fine Art. Although founded in the same year as Ruskin’s 
Drawing School, the Slade was to take a very different 
direction.The first Professor, Edward Poynter, had trained 
in Paris at the École des Beaux-Arts and as a pupil of the 
Swiss painter Charles Gleyre. This experience convinced 
him of the superiority of the French system of art education, 
which privileged drawing from the life model. He 
thus ensured that French principles were at the heart of 
the new school’s ethos.

In his inaugural lectures, Poynter voiced his opposition 
to the Royal Academy, where, he complained, ‘every kind 
of difficulty would seem to be put in the way of study from 
the life’.61 Poynter was fundamentally opposed to a system 
which ‘reverses the natural order of things; for until the 
student knows something of the construction of the 
human body from the living model, it is impossible he can 
understand the generalised and idealised forms in Greek 
sculpture’.62 He therefore recommended the practice that 
he had known in France, of ‘constant study from the life-
model’, as the central tenet of the Slade.63 Poynter’s other 
target was the idea, enshrined within the Royal Academy’s 
system, that a drawing was an end in itself, rather than 
a means ‘to obtain a thorough knowledge of the human 
figure’.64 For Poynter, as for Ruskin, drawing was a way 
of understanding the world, and he considered the kind 
of finely graded shading practiced by Royal Academy 
students to be a trivial waste of time.

Poynter’s successor at the Slade was the Dijon-born 
artist Alphonse Legros, whose teaching method was 
described by Randolph Schwabe, a student and later 
Professor at the Slade as ‘a return to the practice and 
tradition of draughtsmanship among the old masters’.
65 Legros’s spoken English was poor, and his 
comments to individual students were, as one recalled, 
‘laconic and somewhat bleak’.66 He therefore taught 
by demonstration, making drawings in front of a class. 
One former student remarked that ‘the watchers probably 
learnt more in that silent lesson than during three times 
the amount of verbal instruction’.67

In the Life Room at the Slade, students were encouraged 
to make rapid, linear sketches from the model as well 
as more lengthy studies. Under the charismatic teacher 
and later Slade Professor, Henry Tonks – an ex-surgeon 
once credited as ‘the great leader of that great revival of the 
art of drawing’ – both long and short poses were held.68 
One pose was held for the morning and afternoon session.
This was followed, towards the end of the afternoon, by a 
period devoted to short poses, held for only three or four 
minutes each, to allow the students to make a number 
of rapid studies. Tonks’s method of teaching was also 
based on demonstration; he would often sit down next to 
the student and draw on the side of their sheet. William 
Coldstream, a student in the 1920s, recalled that students 
were ‘encouraged to draw in pencil, sight size, making 
each pencil stroke clear and deliberate’ and to ‘start with a 
very faint line, and increase the strength of the mark as the 
drawing progressed’.69

In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, 
the centre of British art education shifted decisively to 
the Slade. Most of those who went on to shape the art 
of the new century were Slade-trained, among them 
Augustus John, Gwen John, William Orpen, Stanley 
Spencer, Paul Nash, David Bomberg, Harold Gilman, 
and Ben Nicholson.Tonks described this period at the 
Slade as ‘a crisis of brilliance’. Augustus John in particular 
was regarded as the most talented draughtsman of his 
generation, his skill prompting comparisons with the 
Old Masters. The fast-paced and fluent sketching – what 
he called ‘intelligent drawing’ – that he had learned at the 
Slade became the basis for his later figure studies.70 One of 
his academic drawings of a male nude (fig. 11) remained in 
the Life Room long after his departure, pinned up on the 
wall by Tonks as an exemplary drawing. Wyndham Lewis, 
a student at the Slade between 1898 and 1901, remembered 
it as ‘a large charcoal drawing in the centre of the 
wall of the life-class of a hairy male nude, arms defiantly 
folded and a bristling moustache, [which] commemorated 
[John’s] powers with almost Gascon assertiveness’.71 
Visible corrections around the edges give the impression 
of vitality, of the planes and shadows of a real body, not 
conveyed by the idealised smooth transition from light to 
shade of traditional academic drawings. If drawing at the 
Royal Academy had become moribund and conventional, 
at the Slade it was the driving force.

Although French academic principles were embedded 
in the Slade’s teaching, it was to contemporary French 
art that many of its students turned. A principal catalyst 
for this was the two exhibitions of Post-Impressionism 
organised by Roger Fry at the Grafton Gallery in London 
in 1910 and 1912. These introduced the work of artists 
including Cézanne, Gauguin, Van Gogh, and Picasso to 
a generation of Slade students – much to the chagrin of 
Tonks, who had enjoined them to stay away from such 
dangerous influences. In terms of drawing, the impact on 
British artists of this exposure to the Continental avant-
garde is especially evident in the work of Harold Gilman.
His engagement with Post-Impressionism, particularly 
the drawings of Van Gogh, is reflected in the expressive 
dots and thick-nibbed dashes of his drawing style (cat. 89).

The artist who exerted the most powerful influence on 
twentieth-century British art was, without doubt, Picasso. 
The influence of his sinuous, confident line stretched right 
across the century, as vividly present in Ben Nicholson’s 
1920s View of the Harbour at St Ives as in David Hockney’s 
drawing of Henry Writing, Lucca, dated 1973 (cats 93 and 
112). Artists instructed in draughtsmanship at art schools 
re-learned to draw by appropriating and adapting aspects 
of Picasso’s protean work, excited by the new possibilities 
it revealed.

If the first schools of art to be established in England 
helped artists compete with foreign rivals by providing 
opportunities to draw from the life model, giving them 
the tools to aspire beyond portraiture to more diverse 
subjects, the Royal Academy and the Slade – although 
espousing different philosophies – were also essentially 
concerned to equip artists to depict the human figure. 
In the early twentieth century, however, the rise of 
non-
figurative art began to destabilise the academic 
system. What the academy had to offer began, to some, 
to seem irrelevant and insular, its authority inevitably 
compromised as young artists engaged with progressive 
European art. In addition, a proliferation at this time 
of independent exhibiting societies offered alternative 
groups and new professional forums. Increasingly, artists 
with an eye on Continental developments began to 
organise things for themselves – which brings the story 
full circle.

Fig. 11 | Augustus John, (1878–1961), Standing Male Nude, 1897. Black chalk on 
paper. University College London Art Museum, SDC 6711 © UCL Art Museum, 
University College London, UK / Augustus John / Bridgeman Images




1. Edward Norgate, Miniatura or the Art 
of Limning, ed., Jeffrey M. Muller and 
Jim Murrell (New Haven and London, 
1997) p. 108.

 2. Ibid.

 3. Norgate (1997) pp. 209–10, n. 307.

 4. See Ilaria Bignamini, ‘George Vertue, 
Art Historian and Art Institutions in 
London, 1689–1768: a Study of Clubs 
and Academies’, Walpole Society, 54 
(1988) p. 61.

 5. William Gore (Wilhelmus Goeree), An 
Introduction to the General Art of Drawing, 
trans. J. L. (London, 1674) p. 11.

 6. ‘Vertue’s Note Book’, Walpole Society, 18 
(1929–30) Vertue I, p. 16.

 7. Horace Walpole, Anecdotes of Painting in 
England; with some account of the principal 
artists; and incidental notes on other arts; 
collected by the late Mr. George Vertue; and 
now digested and published from his original 
MSS, 4 vols (Twickenham, 1771) IV, 
pp. 15–16.

 8. ‘Vertue’s Note Book’, Walpole Society, 18 
(1929–30) Vertue I, p. 39.

 9. See Bignamini (1988), p. 66.

10. ‘Vertue’s Note Book’, Walpole Society, 22 
(1933–4) Vertue III, p. 29.

11. ‘Vertue’s Note Book’, Walpole Society, 20 
(1931–2) Vertue II, pp. 150–5.

12. Vertue (1931–2), p. 150.

13. Ibid.

14. Ibid.

15. Vertue (1931–2) p. 128.

16. Carol Gibson-Wood does not accept 
the attribution of this drawing to 
Richardson.Carol Gibson-Wood, 
‘Jonathan Richardson as a Draftsman’, 
Master Drawings, 32, no. 3 (1994) 
pp. 203–29 (pp. 227–8, n. 46), and Carol 
Gibson-Wood, Jonathan Richardson: 
Art Theorist of the English Enlightenment 
(New Haven and London, 2000) p. 237, 
n. 66. However, as the handling seems 
to me to be consistent with that of 
Richardson’s other chalk drawings, I see 
no reason to doubt it.

17. The Courtauld has Kneller’s 
preparatory study for a portrait of 
William Congreve (c. 1709; d.1952.
RW.1399), alongside two drawings by 
lesser hands that are apparently copies 
of it (d. 1952.RW.2438 and d.1952.
RW.3549). The last has a study of a 
male nude on the verso, suggesting an 
academic context.

18. ‘Vertue’s Note Book’, Walpole Society, 22 
(1933–4) Vertue III, p. 22.

19. Ibid.

20. Michael Kitson, ‘Hogarth’s “Apology 
for Painters”’, Walpole Society, 41 
(1966–8) p. 93, line 358.

21. See Bignamini (1988) p. 67.

22. The date at which Thornhill took over 
is uncertain, but it was in either 1715 or 
1716. See Bignamini (1988) p. 71, n. 27.

23. Kitson (1966–8), p. 93, line 362.

24. ‘Vertue’s Note Book’, Walpole Society, 22 
(1933–4) Vertue III, p. 76.

25. Kitson (1966–8) p. 94, lines 378–9 and 
383–5.

26. Kitson (1966–8) p. 93, lines 367–8.

27. William Hogarth, The Analysis of Beauty, 
ed., Ronald Paulson (New Haven and 
London, 1997) p. 122.

28. Kitson (1966–8) p. 85, lines 170–4.

29. Kitson (1966–8) p. 92, line 328.

30. Kitson (1966–8) p. 94, lines 385–7.

31. Kitson (1966–8) p. 92, lines 329–31.

32. Kitson (1966–8) p. 86, lines 202–3.

33. D. G. C. Allan, William Shipley: Founder 
of the Royal Society of Arts: A Biography 
with Documents (2nd ed., London, 1979) 
p. 80.

34. Joshua Reynolds, Discourses on Art, 
ed., Robert R. Wark (New Haven and 
London, 1997) p. 16.

35. Reynolds (1997) p. 19.

36. From the petition presented to 
George III on 28 November 1768, Royal 
Academy General Assembly Minutes, 
I, 1–4, here quoted from James Fenton, 
School of Genius: A History of the Royal 
Academy of Arts (London, 2006) p. 89.

37. Royal Academy, Council Minutes, 
2 January 1769, I, pp. 4–6. Here quoted 
from Sidney C. Hutchison, The History of 
the Royal Academy, 1768–1986 (2nd edn., 
London, 1986) p. 31.

38. Prince Hoare, Academic Annals of 
Painting, Sculpture, & Architecture 
(London, 1809) p. 182.

39. Prince Hoare (1809) p. 15.

40. Ibid.

41. Reynolds (1997) p. 16.

42. Quoted in William Whitley, Art in 
England 1800–1820 (Cambridge, 1928) 
p. 82.

43. Ibid.

44. William Powell Frith, My Autobiography 
and Reminiscences, 3 vols (London, 
1887–8) I, p. 40.

45. Frith (1887–8) i, pp. 25–6.

46. Ibid., p. 26.

47. William Holman Hunt, Pre-Raphaelitism 
and the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, 2 vols 
(London, 1905) I, p. 34.

48. Ibid.

49. Pierpont Morgan Library, New York, 
Millais Papers and correspondence, 
Bowerswell Papers, J55, ‘To the art 
student’, 29 May 1875.

50. http://www.blakearchive.org/exist/
blake/archive/erdman.xq?id=b12.8, 
page xlvii, accessed 19 September 2014.

51. Allan Cunningham, The Lives of the 
Most Eminent British Painters, Sculptors 
and Architects, 6 vols (2nd ed., London, 
1830–3) II, pp. 165–6.

52. Ed., A. H. Palmer, The Life and Letters 
of Samuel Palmer, Painter and Etcher 
(London, 1972) p. 16.

53. Hunt (1905) I, p. 133.

54. Letter to William Bell Scott, 7 February 
1857, letter 57.12 in The Correspondence 
of Dante Gabriel Rossetti: the Formative 
Years 1835–1862, 2 vols, ed., William E. 
Fredeman (Cambridge, 2002) II, p. 171.

55. Georgiana Burne-Jones, Memorials of 
Edward Burne-Jones, 2 vols (London, 
1904) II, pp. 20–1.

56. The Complete Works of John Ruskin, ed., 
E. T. Cook and Alexander Wedderburn, 
39 vols (London, 1903–12) XV, p. 13.

57. William Bell Scott, Autobiographical 
Notes, 2 vols (London, 1892) II, p. 10.

58. Ibid., pp. 9–10.

59. Ruskin (1903–12) V, p. xl.

60. Ruskin (1903–12) XXXV, p. 311.

61. Edward Poynter, Ten Lectures on Art 
(London, 1879) p. 100.

62. Poynter (1879) p. 101.

63. Poynter (1879) p. 107.

64. Poynter (1879) p. 103.

65. Randolph Schwabe, ‘Three Teachers: 
Brown, Tonks and Steer’, Burlington 
Magazine, 82 (1943) pp. 141–6 (p.142).

66. William Rothenstein, Men and 
Memories: Recollections of William 
Rothenstein 1872–1900, 2 vols (London, 
1931) I, p. 24.

67. Quoted in Emma Chambers, ‘The 
cultivation of mind and hand: teaching 
art at the Slade School of Fine Art 
1868–92’, in Governing Cultures: Art 
Institutions in Victorian London, ed., 
Paul Barlow and Colin Trodd (London, 
2000) p. 109.

68. Sybil Vincent, ‘In the Studio of 
Professor Henry Tonks’, Studio 
(February 1937) p. 84.

69. William Coldstream, from an interview 
recorded in ed., Lynda Morris, Henry 
Tonks and the ‘Art of Pure Drawing’ 
(Norwich, 1985) p. 8.

70. Augustus John, Chiaroscuro: Fragments of 
Autobiography: first series (London, 1952) 
p. 41.

71. Percy Wyndham Lewis, Rude 
Assignment: A narrative of my career 
up-to-date (London, 1950) p. 119.

Notes



Detail of one of the exhibition works here

The exhibition of British Art mounted by the Royal 
Academy in 1934, the largest survey of its kind before 
or since, included more than 200 watercolours, about 
one-eighth of the 1,632 items. Most were packed into the 
Large South Room, where they were seen by Nikolaus 
Pevsner, then a newly arrived German immigrant. Two 
decades later Pevsner delivered his now famous Reith 
Lectures on The Englishness of English Art, and recognised 
that the status accorded to watercolour painting in 
England was ‘never equalled in any other country’.1 
Since it was part of his self-imposed brief to account 
for the ways in which the particular forms of English 
art reflected the English character, Pevsner needed to 
suggest some link, some unique reason why the medium 
flourished so conspicuously in these islands; as far 
as he could see, one of the more compelling answers 
was that watercolours are usually small. ‘They gave an 
unquestionable tone of liberal-mindedness to a suburban 
villa, and were the cheerfullest possible decorations 
for a moderate-sized breakfast-parlour opening onto a 
nicely-mown lawn’, wrote the critic John Ruskin in 1879, 
of William Henry Hunt and Samuel Prout, two watercolourists 
he admired but who, despite his own best 
efforts, came to encapsulate the limited horizons and 
lack of visual sensibility of the British middle classes.2 
Was Pevsner’s ‘small’ a barely disguised metaphor for 
‘small-minded’?

These guarded assessments stand in stark contrast 
to the claims made for watercolour painting in the 
opening decades of the nineteenth century. The Society 
of Painters in Watercolours, relaunching itself in 1821, 
prefaced its catalogue with the statement that ‘Painting 
in Water Colours may justly be regarded as a new art, 
and, in its present application, the invention of British 
Artists’.3 The claims of modernity, paired with a patriotic 
rewriting of art history, proved highly congenial to the 
British public, who considered themselves the masters 
of post-Napoleonic Europe. The stylistic and technical 
eclecticism of the eighteenth century was consigned to 
history; watercolour painting was redefined to apply 
only to those practitioners who used transparent washes, 
without the aid of the opaque bodycolour (previously the 
norm among works designed for display). ‘Hence, we 

Questions of Identity: 
the Place of Watercolour
in British Art

Timothy Wilcox

Detail from Eric Ravilious, 
The Brickyard (cat. 96)



now behold in the paintings in water-colours, a boldness, 
richness, and daring splendour of effect, which in some 
degree emulate the power of paintings in oil; incorporating 
with these properties, those peculiar to water-colours, 
the British school has, at length, achieved the honour of 
having created a new, and most captivating style of art’.4

The writer of this self-congratulatory paragraph was 
William Henry Pyne, an artist who had been one of the 
sixteen founder members of the Society of Painters in 
Watercolours in 1804. Their first exhibition opened in 
the spring of 1805, coinciding with the exhibition at the 
Royal Academy, and they remained the only artist-led 
exhibiting body to rival the Academy. Even if the main 
pretext for the watercolourists’ secession had been the 
poor treatment of drawings and watercolours in the Royal 
Academy exhibitions – where they were relegated to the 
lower floor, hung opposite windows and left to jostle with 
the marbles and casts of the Antique Room – there was 
a further, unspoken, cause of resentment: regulations 
forbade any artist who did not paint in oils from applying 
for membership of the Academy, even at the lower rank 
of Associate. The growing band of specialist watercolour 
painters, emboldened by the example of Thomas Girtin, 
whose grand landscapes of Wales had been hailed as the 
finest the Royal Academy exhibition had yet witnessed, 
was thus excluded from the professional status and social 
prestige, not to mention the business opportunities, 
monopolised by the established body.

The first exhibition of the new Society was a considerable 
commercial success: 160 of the 275 works were 
sold, and the artists paid themselves a dividend from the 
entrance receipts of more than 11,000 visitors.5 Among 
the latter were several Royal Academicians, who admitted 
to being favourably impressed; Thomas Lawrence, already 
a noted collector of drawings, was one of the buyers. 
What began as perhaps no more than a curiosity (the first 
Watercolour Society exhibition was almost completely 
overlooked by the periodical press) quickly became a phenomenon.
6 By 1809 its attendance had doubled, and the 
Royal Academy could no longer simply ignore the upstart. 
Yet despite a reversal in its regulations in 1812, again 
admitting the creators of drawings or watercolours to the 
rank of Associate, very few applied and none was elected.

The rivalry between the two institutions was not 
relaxed until the 1870s, when Sir John Gilbert, President 
of the Watercolour Society, became the first artist elected 
concurrently to membership of the Royal Academy.7 By 
then the damage had been done, however, and a strong 
sense of the exclusivity of watercolour as a completely 
independent practice had firmly taken root. In reality, 
leading watercolourists such as Peter De Wint, Copley 
Fielding and William Turner of Oxford also sent oils to 
the Royal Academy, and David Cox even came to prefer 
the medium at the end of his life. Only with the passing of 
this entire generation (Fielding died in 1855, Cox in 1859, 
Turner in 1862) did a new atmosphere emerge in which 
the institutions regarded each other with respect rather 
than antagonism.

The Society of Painters in Watercolours set the agenda 
for the future of the medium in numerous ways, which 
have subsequently become so entrenched that their initial 
novelty is hardly recognised. As the one early image of 
their exhibition gallery shows, most of the displayed 
works were landscapes (fig. 12); but this was not the case 
every year. Two of the original members, Samuel Shelley 
and Stephen Rigaud, were figure painters, while Joshua 
Cristall exhibited both figures and landscapes; Robert 
Hills was primarily an animal painter and Nicholas Pocock 
a marine artist. Just as watercolour was not entirely synonymous 
with landscape, so the careers of the men (the first 
woman, Anna Byrne, was elected when the membership 
expanded in 1806) were not completely given over to the 
creation of paintings for exhibition.Watercolour may have 
given them a crucial identity, individually and collectively, 
but the Society’s members remained teachers, writers, 
printmakers, illustrators and, in the case of Cornelius 
Varley, scientist and inventor.

In 1805 Britain was at war against the Napoleonic 
armies, and the Continent was inaccessible to travellers. 
The vast majority of the landscapes hung in the exhibition 
were necessarily of British subjects, suggesting from the 
outset some patriotic intent, real or implied.8 The bubble 
burst in 1812 when, in the face of falling receipts, the 
Society disbanded; they must have been grateful to have 
avoided the fate of a newer, rival group, the Associated 
Artists in Watercolours, some of whose exhibits were 
seized as surety for debt. It was at this moment – in the 
autumn of 1812, when the movement was at its lowest ebb 
– that the first historical account of British watercolour 
painting appeared. It was published in Ackermann’s 
Repository of Arts, the monthly periodical issued by the 
picture dealer and artists’ supplier who had profited by the 
recent enthusiasm for watercolour among professionals 
and amateurs alike, and who consequently had a great 
deal to lose. The series of articles, ‘Observations on the 
rise and progress of painting in watercolours’, cited Paul 
Sandby as the pre-eminent artist of the earlier generation 
whose work ‘opened the way to every subsequent 
improvement’.9 Having recently been dubbed ‘the father 
of modern landscape painting in watercolours’, Sandby 
enjoyed the unique status of an Academician who, over 
a 40-year period, had shown nothing but works on 
paper in the annual exhibition.10 These ranged widely 
throughout the British Isles, with a predominance of 
views of Windsor Castle, itself a symbol of patriotism and monarchical 
authority.11

Fig. 12 | Joseph Stadler, after Augustus Charles Pugin (1769–1832) 
and Thomas Rowlandson (1756/7–1827), Exhibition of watercolour drawings, 
Old Bond Street from The Microcosm of London, 1808. Hand-coloured aquatint. 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, Hope Library, v.k.11




Following Sandby, the two artists judged to have made 
the greatest contribution to watercolour landscape were 
John Robert Cozens and John ‘Warwick’ Smith. Both had 
concentrated on views of Italy, but it was the landscape 
itself which was said to have inspired them; at no stage 
are any of the foreign artists whom they encountered 
in Rome referred to, let alone mentioned by name. 
So began the isolationist account of the development 
of British watercolour painting, in which the scenery 
alone – formerly Italian and now, by implication, the 
native landscape – took sole credit for the merits of the 
art. The ‘Observations’ conclude with an appeal for a new 
generation of patrons (unmasking the Society’s thinly 
veiled ulterior motive as a marketing operation), without 
paying the least regard to the realities of international 
relations in the later eighteenth century. At that time, for 
every watercolour painted by Cozens or Smith, British 
Grand Tourists had offered commissions to an eclectic 
array of Continental artists, of whom the German Jakob 
Philipp Hackert, the Swiss Louis Ducros and the Italian 
Giovanni Battista Lusieri have only lately received due 
recognition.12

The foundation of the Society of Painters in 
Watercolours, and in 1807 the appearance among its 
ranks of ‘Warwick’ Smith, an artist who had previously 
survived entirely on private patronage and never exhibited 
in public, marks a watershed of a different sort. The 
eighteenth-century watercolour was generally classified 
as a somewhat luxurious illustration, collected as much 
for its documentary as for its artistic value, and as such 
was more at home in a gentleman’s library, mounted 
into bound albums or kept loose in portfolios with maps 
and large engravings. A notable exception was made by 
Richard Colt Hoare at Stourhead in Wiltshire. As well as 
displaying framed Italian views by Cozens and Smith, he 
showed them in the company of highly elaborate watercolours 
by Ducros, acquired in Rome during two journeys 
in 1785–7 and 1788–91 (fig. 13). In his History of Modern 
Wiltshire, published in 1822, Hoare claimed, with exaggerated 
self-importance, that the advances in watercolour 
painting over the previous three decades owed much – 
indeed almost everything – to the example of Ducros. To 
the extent that his richly coloured depictions of Roman 
architecture may well have spurred the young Turner to a 
greater chromatic range in the watercolours of Salisbury 
he made for Hoare from 1798 to 1803, Ducros may indeed 
have made some contribution to recent developments 
in Britain. However, such a bold proposition, especially 
when made within the pages of a large antiquarian tome, 
could hardly be accommodated in the freshly minted master 
narrative of British supremacy, and Hoare’s suggestion 
was promptly forgotten for more than a hundred years.13

In any case, the situation was considerably more 
complex. It was not Ducros’s surface dazzle so much as the 
near-monochrome watercolours of Cozens which opened 
up unforeseen possibilities – not only to Turner, but to an 
entire generation of painters exposed to his work at the 
London house of Dr Thomas Monro. Monro employed 
Turner, Girtin and other young artists, including John 
Varley and John Sell Cotman, to make copies of compositions 
by Cozens. It was less the subjects themselves, 
scenes in the Roman Campagna or the Bay of Naples, 
than the subtlety of Cozens’s wash technique which made 
the greatest impression; through the extreme refinement 
of his graduated colour, Cozens evoked the fabled clarity 
of the Italian atmosphere, and an almost infinite spatial 
recession.These were the very features recalled by John 
Henderson, Junior, whose father had been a regular 
visitor to Monro’s house and must have seen the copies 
in progress: 
‘the graduations are beautifully and tenderly 
marked and are full of light possessing much of these qualities 
for which Turner afterwards became so renowned’.14 
The shift of emphasis from a linear to a tonal medium 
demonstrated that the watercolour landscape could make 
its own distinctive contribution to aesthetic debates 
centring on the value of outline – debates that more often 
raged around the figures of Michelangelo or Raphael.15

At the sight of the art treasures assembled in the 
Louvre, the British artists who visited Paris in 1802 had 
cause to reflect on their own national art and whether, 
less than four decades after the foundation of their own 
Royal Academy, such a thing as a national style could yet 
be identified. The consensus recorded by the Academician 
Joseph Farington was that drawing was most highly valued 
in France (despite the cessation of military hostilities, 
still the culture Britain measured itself against), while in 
Britain, the style was more painterly.16 The watercolours 
of Cozens and the brush drawings of Gainsborough thus 
acquired signs of Britishness, no less effective for being 
applied retrospectively. Francis Towne, who had once 
protested that he ‘never exhibited a drawing’, succumbed 
to the new trend early in 1805, and mounted a one-man-
show of nearly 200 of his finished sketches.17 In order to 
accommodate contemporary taste, he reworked many 
to increase their tonal range and to reduce the intrusive 
linear effect of his virtuoso penwork.

John Robert Cozens provided a model for the new, 
independent, painterly watercolour in one further respect: 
none of his watercolours was engraved. The sets of Welsh 
aquatints by Paul Sandby, and the Italian and Lake District 
views published by ‘Warwick’ Smith, played a key role in 
promoting the names and reputations of these artists, far 
beyond the value of the images themselves. The founder 
members of the Society of Painters in Watercolours may 
have wished to free themselves from watercolour’s usual 
associations with the commerce of publishing and the 
artisanal craft of engraving; but, in doing so, they forfeited 
the wider dissemination of their work. Something of a 
rearguard action was launched in the 1820s, with Robert 


Fig. 13 | Louis Ducros (1748–1810), Falls of Tivoli, c. 1780. 
Watercolour and bodycolour on paper. Stourhead, The Hoare Collection 
© National Trust Images/John Hammond


Fig. 14 | J. M. W. Turner (1775–1851), The Junction of the Greta and the Tees at 
Rokeby, 1816–8. Watercolour over graphite, with scratching out and use of 
the brush handle, on wove paper. Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, 
WA.RS.STD.002




Bowyer’s Facsimiles of Watercolour Drawings (1825); and 
in 1831 the Society took matters into its own hands with 
the folio, Gallery of the Society of Painters in Watercolours.18 
This came in response on the one hand to the inception 
of a ‘New Society of Painters in Watercolours’, and on the 
other to the exhibitions of Turner’s watercolours for the 
Picturesque Views in England and Wales, which demonstrated 
how those members of the public who could not afford 
such consummate pinnacles of watercolour art were happy 
to enjoy them by proxy through the medium of engraving 
(cats 44 and 45).19

When Ruskin began his defence of Turner in the first 
volume of Modern Painters (1843), it was the Picturesque 
Views in England and Wales that he most frequently discussed, 
along with the twenty subjects engraved for Dr 
Thomas Whitaker’s Richmondshire, left incomplete at the 
author’s death in 1821. Ruskin ultimately owned thirteen 
of the hundred or so England and Wales watercolours. He 
also managed to acquire four of the Yorkshire subjects, 
one of which, The Junction of the Greta and Tees at Rokeby, he 
gave to his Drawing School in Oxford in 1875 (fig. 14).20 
He considered these drawings to have ‘the most heart in 
them, the most affectionate, simple, unwearied, serious 
finishing of truth’. Such comments follow directly on 
Ruskin’s observation that ‘whatever is to be truly great and 
affecting must have on it the strong stamp of the native 
land. Not a law this, but a necessity, from the intense hold 
on their country of the affections of all truly great men … 
if we are now to do anything great, good, awful, religious, 
it must be got out of our own little island, and out of these 
very times, railroads and all’. Thinking of Turner, Ruskin 
partially excused landscape from this directive, but only 
because the sentiments aroused by Turner’s latest views of 
Switzerland must have been sparked initially in Britain: 
‘the law of nationality will hold with him only so far as a 
certain joyfulness and completion will be by preference 
found in those parts of his subject which remind him of his 
own land’.21

Ruskin’s discussion of Turner implicitly affirmed the 
status of watercolour art by citing without discrimination 
oils, watercolours and even the prints of the Liber 
Studiorum, as long as they illustrated the principles he 
sought to expound. The contemporary landscape painters, 
whose flickering lights rendered Turner’s only more 
incandescent by comparison, were also predominantly 
watercolour specialists: David Cox, Copley Fielding, 
Peter De Wint. Ruskin’s father made his first purchases 
from the Society of Painters in Watercolours in the 
early 1830s. He was entirely typical of the middle-class, 
suburban collectors who for several decades in the 
middle of the nineteenth century helped make this 
institution not only the rival to the Royal Academy, but 
arguably its superior, at least in popularity and volume 
of sales.22 The fact that their client list was headed by 
Queen Victoria, far from upsetting this assertion, only 
redoubled its power, since the possession of watercolours 
by members of the two watercolour societies was itself 
a potent mark of the domesticity she wished the royal 
household to exemplify.23 The parity of the Society of 
Painters in Watercolours and the Royal Academy and the 
media they represented (taking for granted that the Royal 
Academy could not compete as far as watercolour art was 
concerned) was further reinforced by the publication of 
Ruskin’s Academy Notes, which in 1856 extended their coverage 
to include the Society of Painters in Watercolours.

His review opened with John Frederick Lewis’s A Frank 
Encampment in the Desert of Mount Sinai, 1842. ‘I have 
no hesitation in ranking it among the most wonderful 
pictures of the world,’ Ruskin declared, ‘nor do I believe 
that, since the death of Paul Veronese, anything has been 
painted comparable to it in its own way’ (fig. 15).24 Ruskin 
admired the colour, the quality of light and, above all, the 
miniaturist’s handling of fine detail. Twenty years later 
he set it alongside a work by Turner from the Yorkshire 
series as representing ‘unsurpassable standards’ in the 
art of watercolour.25 By then the tide had well and truly 
turned, however, leaving Lewis as a high-water mark of 
minute intricacy largely superseded by a different aesthetic 
entirely: the sketch.

Paradoxically, it was again Ruskin who set this process 
in motion.In his Academy Notes for 1859 he castigated 
virtually the entire membership of the watercolour 
societies for their want of true poetic sentiment, and their 
concentration on the particular to the detriment of any 
breadth or unity as a whole. Following Turner’s death in 
1851, Ruskin, as one of his executors, took on the task of 
organising his legacy to the nation, and it is hard not to see 
his change of position as the result of sifting and sorting 
through all the drawings and watercolour sketches in the 
Turner Bequest. He completed a preliminary selection 
in 1857 and later created a display of 338 sheets, exhibited 
at Marlborough House in the spring of 1858.26 While 
the finished watercolours had become relatively familiar, 
the sketches were completely unknown: nothing like 
them had been seen in public before. They were studied 
with profit by watercolourists in Ruskin’s orbit, such as 
Alfred William Hunt (fig. 16) and Albert Goodwin, as well 
as by existing admirers, including Samuel Palmer, and 

Fig. 16 | Alfred William Hunt (1830–96), Durham from the Red Hills, 
c. 1860–5. Pencil and watercolour on paper. Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, 
WA1918.7.63.18


Fig. 15 | John Frederick Lewis (1804–76), A Frank Encampment in the Desert 
of Mount Sinai, 1842, 1856. Watercolour, bodycolour and graphite on slightly 
textured, beige wove paper mounted on board. Yale Center for British Art, 
Paul Mellon Collection, B1977.14.143




new converts, among them James McNeill Whistler and 
Hercules Brabazon Brabazon.27

Whistler, American by birth but resident in Paris and 
later London, acted as an intermediary between Britain 
and France. The scenes of the River Thames he titled 
Harmony or Nocturne were conceived entirely in terms of 
colour, like Turner’s sketches, and executed in thin veils of 
translucent paint, handled more like watercolour than oil. 
For his part, Brabazon was an affluent amateur who for 
decades avoided exhibiting his work. When he eventually 
consented to a one-man show, at the Goupil Gallery, 
London in 1892, he was hailed as a bridge between the 
British tradition and the new art of the Impressionists, 
an artist who had ‘gathered from Turner the hints that 
extraordinary genius flung out of a technique partly 
transparent, partly opaque, embracing the full range of 
resource in the medium, and adapted to express by its 
speed and suggestiveness the most fleeting actions and 
exquisite surprises of colour’.28 The closing remarks were 
surely calculated to suggest a comparison with the most 
recent canvases of Monet, while the emphasis on Turner’s 
varied use of the watercolour medium undermined the 
entrenched orthodoxy that still saw only the transparent 
technique as the true embodiment of tradition.

An earlier challenge, again Anglo-French in origin, 
had come in the mixed techniques employed by Richard 
Parkes Bonington in the 1820s. However, this had 
been effectively suppressed by the Society of Painters in 
Watercolours who roundly condemned any artist who had 
recourse to the pernicious, supposedly Continental, use 
of bodycolour. So the landscapes shown by William Havell 
in 1827 were euphemistically described as ‘not popular 
with the members owing to the free use of body colour’; 
a stricture so severe that, in the following year, Havell 
resigned to concentrate on oil painting, though with little 
success.29 In his review of the Society’s exhibition of 1840, 
the novelist William Makepeace Thackeray singled out 
Frederick Tayler: ‘we are led bitterly to deplore the use of 
that fatal white-lead pot, that is clogging and blackening 
the pictures of so many of the water-colour painters 
nowadays. His large picture contains a great deal of this 
white mud’.30 Later artists sought to head off criticism 
by exploiting the layman’s confusion over terminology, 
especially where artist’s materials were concerned. 
Marcus Huish, sometime editor of The Art Journal, related 
how George Pinwell ‘answered the query of one of his 
would-be purchasers whether he used Chinese white with 
the reply, “Chinese white! God forbid. I only use body 
colour”’.31

By the turn of the twentieth century the Royal 
Watercolour Society, as it had become in 1881, was firmly 
part of the establishment, and was again called upon by 
more conservative voices in the press to stand firm in its 
resistance to foreign innovation.Watercolour was by now 
held to be responsible for ‘carrying on the continuity of 
one branch of our national culture’ and for keeping ‘at 
least one stream of English art pure and wholesome’, 
in contrast to the painters in oils who ‘have been blown 
about by every wind of doctrine’.32

That watercolour was a quintessentially English art 
could not be doubted; the difference now was that, instead 
of being considered innovative, it was valued, in some 
quarters at least, for being reactionary. As long as cosmopolitanism 
was understood to be one of the defining 
characteristics of modernism, which was transplanted, 
or, rather grafted, on to national schools across the world, 
watercolour remained a potent symbol of Englishness. 
In the hands of its most original exponents, the choice of 
material did not in itself imply a resistance to new ideas; 
on the contrary, it symbolised a duality, a state of flux in 
which tradition and modernity sought to co-exist. One 
work that came to embody this very condition was John 
Sell Cotman’s Greta Bridge. This watercolour of 1805 
was acquired by the British Museum in 1902 and first 
reproduced in colour in 1903.33 It immediately gained 
talismanic status, and remained for half a century the 
touchstone to which the vast majority of British landscape 
painting deferred. Cotman was given an enormous 
retrospective at the Tate Gallery in 1922 (at that date an 
honour that had been accorded to neither Turner nor 
Constable), at which The Times pronounced, ‘There is no 
English landscape painter – perhaps no English painter at 
all except Hogarth – so interesting to the modern artist’.34

Laurence Binyon, who had been largely responsible 
for the acquisition of the Cotman by the British 
Museum and had written the essay accompanying its 
reproduction 
in 1903, concluded his seminal volume 
on English Water-colours with a chapter entitled ‘Revival’. 
In a bid to naturalise the supposedly foreign implant of 
Post-Impressionism, Binyon noted that, ‘there was no 
need to invoke Cézanne, for Cotman was there to show 
the way by his mastery of structural design’.35 Binyon 
recognised such qualities in the watercolours of Paul Nash 
and Eric Ravilious, but he would have discovered other, 
intriguingly hybrid, responses within the ranks of the 
Royal Watercolour Society. William Russell Flint, elected 
President in 1936, was avowedly un-English in adapting 
Cotman’s broad flat washes to the depiction of clear 
Mediterranean skies; he gave the screw a further twist in 
populating his beach scenes with figures culled from Art 
Deco fashion illustration. Leonard Russell Squirrell was 
one among many commercial illustrators who found in 
Cotman an ideal model for railway posters celebrating 
British landscape with the attention-grabbing brevity of 
a headline in block capitals. The watercolour Squirrell 
donated to the Royal Watercolour Society on his election 
in 1941 was rather more subtle: a half-demolished building 
with unmistakeable echoes of Cotman’s Ruined House 
(cat. 33), but executed in a range of pastel shades that are 
entirely contemporary (fig. 17).

By this date, thanks to the German Luftwaffe, such 
sights were becoming all too familiar. At the onset of war 
in 1939, the Pilgrim Trust had inaugurated an ambitious 
programme to commission artists to make watercolours 
of buildings throughout England and Wales that were 
perceived to be under threat. Rather than simply using 
photography, the Recording Britain scheme chose watercolour, 
partly to provide employment for trained artists 
who were suffering from the contraction of their market, 
and partly to reassert national pride in an art form held 
to be distinctively British. Even the leading modernist 
critic Herbert Read, reviewing the first exhibition of the 
resulting watercolours in 1941, recognised the apt choice 
of materials, since this ‘modest craft’ was one ‘for which, 
among the nations of the world, [the British] have shown a 
supreme ability’.36 John Piper was one of the few artists in 
the scheme who is widely known today. Whether working 
in oils, mixed media or print, all his architectural work 
owes a strong debt to Cotman, both for his stark depiction 
of ruins and his assertive geometry. In an article he wrote 
in 1942 to mark the centenary of Cotman’s death, Piper 
described him (somewhat unfairly) as an artist ‘obsessed 
by death and decay in old buildings’, a reason for the 
‘present sympathy’ with him, since ‘the texture of walls 
in bombed cities is a prominent reality at the moment’.37 
Piper thus added Cotman to the cast of British eccentrics, 
which included William Blake and Samuel Palmer, whose 
dogged individualism was in itself a powerful expression 
of the British character.

Recording Britain is now recognised as the final flowering 
of a 200-year-old tradition which, after the Second 
World War, all but vanished. The various pressures of 
international modernism, the increase in scale typical of 
the New York action painters, the possibilities offered 
by the new medium of acrylic – all seriously undermined 
the qualities of watercolour, which, apart from its combination 
with other drawing media in quick sketches, for 
decades became a virtual ghetto for the amateur. The art 
so strongly associated with Britishness appeared to have 
lost its credibility in an era which was epitomised by the 
disintegration of the British Empire.

It has taken a post-colonial consciousness to recognise 
that watercolour, in addition to its use as highly successful 
propaganda to boost national self-esteem at home, 
was also effective as a national representative overseas. 

Fig. 17 | Leonard Russell Squirrell (1893–1979), The last phase: demolition at 
Stoke Street, Ipswich, 1938. Watercolour and bodycolour on paper © Royal 
Watercolour Society, London




When a large group of watercolours was included in 
the British section of the first International Exhibition 
held in continental Europe, the Exposition Universelle of 
1855, the impact was inescapable. J. F. Lewis, recently 
elected President, received an enquiry from the Comte de 
Persigny, French ambassador in London, asking about 
the constitution and rules of the Society of Painters in 
Watercolours, presumably with a view to founding a comparable 
organisation in France. In the event, the Société des 
aquarellistes français was not founded until 1885.38 Lewis 
would have been unaware that nearly three decades earlier, 
none other than Eugène Delacroix had made a similar 
enquiry. The arch-romantic was a highly enthusiastic and 
committed watercolourist, using the medium as a gesture 
of independence from the Académie, and as an expression 
of the anglomanie which was a vital strain of French culture 
in the 1820s.39

In the late eighteenth century watercolour had been 
added to travel sketches to give a further layer of scientific 
veracity by official draughtsmen such as John Webber, in 
the Pacific with Captain Cooke, or William Alexander, 
who accompanied Lord Macartney’s mission to China.40 
The retraining of the court artists of Delhi in English 
methods of observation and wash drawing marked an 
important step in the exportation of national cultural 
values by the colonising power. The portraits of young 
recruits drawn in the Himalayan foothills for William and 
James Fraser are a moving testimony from artists who 
have already accepted a process of westernisation, creating 
memorials of individuals about to undergo a similar 
fate (fig. 18).41

The prominence of watercolour painting throughout 
the English-speaking world is a direct consequence of 
its vogue in nineteenth-century Britain, and is arguably 
one of the more potent ways by which the medium 
perpetuates its connexion with these shores. This is also 
true of Canada and Australia, and even more so of the 
United States of America. The first watercolour society 
in Australia, the Australian Watercolour Institute, was 
not founded until 1923, but it was even then modelled 
on the now century-old Royal Watercolour Society.42 
Watercolour was already promoted as a significant art 
form in the Antipodes; among the first purchases for the 
National Gallery of Victoria in 1905 was Okehampton, 
one of Turner’s prestigious Picturesque Views in England 
and Wales.43

Just as the Australian watercolourists were motivated 
by a combination of solidarity and the desire to maximise 
their market in the aftermath of the First World War, so 
the American Society of Painters in Watercolors (soon 
renamed the American Water Color Society), founded in 
1867, was in part a fresh initiative following the conclusion 
of the American Civil War in 1865. The parallels with its 
British antecedent, itself a product of a long period of conflict, 
are not hard to perceive. Winslow Homer, perhaps 
America’s greatest ever watercolourist, joined the Society 
in 1876. He spent eighteen months in Britain in 1881–2 
and, although the expressive and technical brilliance of 
his later watercolours cannot be directly attributed to this 
trip, most of which was spent among the artists’ colony in 
the tiny Northumberland fishing village of Cullercoats, 
the sight of his recent work holding its own in vast mixed 
exhibitions in Newcastle and London must at the very 
least have helped to build his confidence in the medium 
and his ability with it.44

It is surely from Homer that the vibrancy of the 
twentieth-century American watercolour springs. On his 
death in 1910 the great East Coast museums – Boston, 
Brooklyn, the Metropolitan – vied for the remains of his 
studio. By the 1920s critics were confidently reinterpreting 
watercolour as a quintessentially American phenomenon: 
‘Watercolor painting … seems particularly suited to the 
American temperament. Its swiftness and spontaneity 
reflect our swift intensity of living’, wrote one reviewer 
in 1926.45 A mid-century survey in Minneapolis inspired 
an article entitled ‘Watercolor, the American medium?’; 
it was echoed by another in 1962 which considered that 
the question mark was unnecessary.46 For a more recent 
scholar, writing in the 1990s, the appeal of this view 
of early modern American painting was due in part to 
the perception that watercolour had not been ‘recently 
identified with any particular country’.47 Were the British, 
previously so proud of their watercolour heritage, now 
quietly disowning it?

Debates about national identity, its formation and 
cultural expression, rarely acknowledge the innovative 
role played by the founder members of the Society of 
Painters in Watercolours. These artists contrived a pact 
with the public which lasted the length of the nineteenth 
century – through which, for better or worse, the unique 
prominence of watercolour painting could be seen as an 
expression of the British character. Ruskin, delivering his 
first lectures as Slade Professor in Oxford in 1870, grandly 
dismissed the entire enterprise as tantamount to a lack of 
ambition in the present and a lack of concern for posterity: 
‘the extended practice of watercolour painting, as a separate 
skill, is in every way harmful to the arts; its pleasant 
slightness and plausible dexterity divert the genius of the 
painter from its proper aims and withdraw the attention 
of the public from excellence of higher claim’.48 He 
sneered at the way in which the watercolour had become 
a commodity, when marketing and sales were arguably 
one of the greatest successes of the whole movement, one 
which America and Australia were happy to emulate. The 
preponderance of landscape painting appealed not only to 
the first-generation inhabitants of the suburbs of industrial 
towns; the innate conservatism of rural life supplied 
equally potent imagery for the economically depressed 
decade of the 1930s.

The present survey provides ample evidence that 
excellence in watercolour painting was never confined to 
one period, nor to one place. The rhetoric it inspired was 
effective, far beyond the aspirations of those who devised 
it. Watercolour has shown itself robust and resilient; 
whether these characteristics constitute further aspects of 
its supposed Britishness, it would be futile to judge. They 
do nevertheless suggest the art form, for all its colourful 
past, also has a rosy future.

Fig. 18 | Anonymous Delhi artist, Recruits to the regiment of Skinner’s horse, 
c. 1815–20. Opaque watercolour on paper © The British Library, Add. Or. 
1261




Notes

1. Nikolaus Pevsner, The Englishness of 
English Art (London, 1956, rev. ed., 
Harmondsworth, 1964) p. 169. See 
also Andrew Causey, ‘English Art and 
‘The National Character’, 1933–34’, in 
ed., David Peters Corbett, Ysanne Holt 
and Fiona Russell, The Geographies of 
Englishness: Landscape and the National 
Past, 1880–1940 (New Haven and 
London, 2002) p. 295. For the purposes 
of this essay ‘English’ and ‘British’ are 
used interchangeably, as they have been 
in most discussions of national identity 
during the time period covered here.

 2. John Ruskin, Notes on Prout and 
Hunt, 1879; The Complete Works of John 
Ruskin, ed.,E. 
T. Cook and Alexander 
Wedderburn, 39 vols (London, 1903–12) 
XIV, p. 373.

 3. John Gage, ‘Turner: A Watershed 
in Watercolour’, in ed., M. Lloyd, 
Turner (National Gallery of Australia, 
Canberra, 1996) p. 106.

 4. ‘On Painting in Water Colours’, Somerset 
House Gazette (1823) p. 31.

 5. Greg Smith, The Emergence of the 
Professional Watercolourist: Contentions 
and Alliances in the Artistic Domain, 
1760–1824 (Aldershot, 2002) p. 9.

 6. The only periodical to notice the 1805 
exhibition was the Morning Post. Greg 
Smith, personal communication.

 7. Simon Fenwick, The Enchanted River: 
Two hundred years of the Royal Watercolour 
Society (Bristol, 2004) p. 79.

 8. The only exceptions were the view of 
Paris, St Denis and Florence by John 
Claude Nattes. In 1807 views of Italy 
by John ‘Warwick’ Smith, an elder 
statesman of the medium who claimed 
some of the credit for introducing a 
more ‘painterly’ approach to landscape, 
made an appearance.

 9. ‘Observations on the rise and progress 
of painting in watercolours’, Ackerman’s 
Repository, vol. VIII (November 1812) 
p. 259.

10. ‘Memoir of Paul Sandby’, Monthly 
Magazine (1811) p. 440; see Timothy 
Wilcox, The Triumph of Watercolour: The 
early years of the Royal Watercolour Society 
1805–55 (London, 2005) p. 67. A founder 
member of the RA, and thus not subject 
to the later requirement to exhibit oils, 
Sandby had painted in this technique 
only at the outset of his career, before 
the foundation of the Academy.

11. Luke Herrmann, Paul and Thomas Sandby 
(London, 1986) pp. 69–72.

12. See Simon Reynolds, ‘Jakob Philipp 
Hackert und die britischen Sammler’ in 
Klassik Stiftung Weimar, Jakob Philipp 
Hackert. Europas Landschaftsmaler der 
Goethezeit (Hamburg, 2008) pp. 70–4; 
Lindsay Stainton, ‘Ducros and the 
British’ in Iveagh Bequest, Kenwood, 
Images of the Grand Tour: Louis Ducros 
1748–1810 (London, 1985) pp. 26–30; 
Aidan Weston-Lewis, Expanding 
horizons: Giovanni Battista Lusieri and 
the Panoramic Landscape (Edinburgh 
2012) passim. Publications in English 
on the host of other eighteenth-century 
watercolourists who had no contact 
with the British are sparse indeed, and 
are indicative of an abiding insularity, 
despite the national affection for the 
medium. The British Museum’s French 
Landscape Drawings and Sketches of the 
Eighteenth Century, from as long ago as 
1977, remains a rare exception.

13. C. F. Bell, ‘British water-colour 
painters: James Moore Collection’, The 
Walpole Society, V (1915–17) pp. 56–7; the 
grounds for his support of the influence 
of Ducros are questioned by Lindsay 
Stainton, loc.cit.

14. ‘Account of a visit by Joseph Jenkins 
to Mr Henderson, … 15 January 1856’, 
Simon Fenwick and Greg Smith, The 
Business of Watercolour: A guide to the 
archives of the Royal Watercolour Society 
(Aldershot, 1997) p. 279.

15. See, for example, George Cumberland, 
Thoughts on Outline (1796) as discussed 
in David Bindman, Blake as an Artist 
(Oxford, 1977) pp. 102–3.

16. Joseph Farington, Diary, 29 September 
and 3 October 1802, quoted in John 
Gage, ‘The British School and the British 
School’, in ed., Brian Allen, Towards 
a Modern Art World (New Haven and 
London, 1995) p. 117.

17. Timothy Wilcox, Francis Towne 
(London, 1997) p. 163.

18. J. L. Roget, A History of the ‘Old Water-
colour’ Society, now The Royal Society of 
Painters in Water-colours, 2 vols (London, 
1891) I, pp. 554–5.

19. Eric Shanes, Turner’s Picturesque 
Views in England and Wales 1825–1838 
(London, 1979) pp. 10–15, details the 
tortuous history of the engravings, 
with the plates and the remaining stock 
bought up by Turner himself in 1840. 
Withholding the coppers and failing to 
sell the impressions privately, Turner 
effectively removed the series from 
circulation until after his death.

20. Eric Shanes (1979) p. 16, and 
L. Herrmann, Ruskin and Turner 
(London, 1968) pp. 96–7. See also 
Stephen Wildman, ‘Aquarelles de 
J. M. W. Turner dans la collection 
de John Ruskin’, in Ruskin – Turner. 
Dessins et Voyages en Picardie Romantique 
(Amiens, Musée de Picardie, 2003) 
pp. 135–48.

21. Ruskin (1903–12) III, p. 232.

22. Ann Sumner, Ruskin and the English 
Watercolour: from Turner to the 
Pre-Raphaelites (Whitworth Art Gallery, 
Manchester, 1989) p. 7.

23. See Delia Millar, The Victorian 
Watercolours and Drawings in the Collection 
of Her Majesty the Queen, 2 vols (London, 
1995).

24. Ruskin (1903–12) XIV, p. 74.

25. Ibid., p. 340.

26. Ian Warrell, ‘Turner’s legacy: the artist’s 
bequest and its influence’, in Katharine 
Lochnan et al., TurnerWhistlerMonet 
(London, 2004) p. 69.

27. Andrew Wilton, ‘The Legacy of Turner’s 
watercolours’, in Eric Shanes, Turner: 
The Great Watercolours (Royal Academy 
of Arts, London, 2000) pp. 46–55; 
Chrisotpher Newall, The Poetry of 
Truth: Alfred William Hunt and the Art of 
Landscape (Oxford, 2004) pp. 11–12.

28. D. S. McColl, in The Spectator, quoted in 
Wilton (2000) p. 55.

29. Felicity Owen, William Havell, 1782–1857 
(London, 1981) pp. 31–3.

30. William Makepeace Thackeray, ‘A 
pictorial rhapsody’, Fraser’s Magazine 
(July 1840) in Critical Papers in Art 
(London, 1904) p. 137.

31. Marcus Bourne Huish, British Water-
colour Art (London, 1904) p. 202.

32. The Times, 13 April 1881, quoted in Greg 
Smith, ‘An art suited to the ‘English 
Middle Classes’? The Watercolour 
Societies in the Victorian period’, in ed., 
Paul Barlow and Colin Trodd, Governing 
Cultures: Art Institutions in Victorian 
London (Aldershot, 2000) p. 121.

33. Ed., Charles Holme, Masters of English 
Landscape Painting (London, 1903) 
Special plate, opp. p.JSC iv.

34. The Times, 8 April 1922.

35. Laurence Binyon, English Water-
Colours (London, 1933, 2nd ed., 1944), 
pp. 167–8.

36. The Listener, 24 July 1941, quoted in 
David Mellor, Gill Saunders and Patrick 
Wright, Recording Britain: A Pictorial 
Domesday of Pre-War Britain (London, 
1990) p. 12.

37. John Piper, ‘John Sell Cotman’, 
Architectural Review (July 1942) pp. 9–11.

38. J. L. Roget (1891) II, p. 91 ; Timothy 
Wilcox, ‘Magnificence et crasse, 
le classique et le pittoresque, les 
aquarellistes anglais en France’, 
1880–1855, in Napoléon III et la Reine 
Victoria: Une visite à l’Exposition 
Universelle de 1855 (Musée National du 
Château de Compiègne, 2009) p. 188.

39. Patrick Noon, ‘Diamonds that flatter 
and ravish the eye: the ascendancy of 
watercolour’, in Patrick Noon, Constable 
to Delacroix: British Art and the French 
Romantics (London, 2003) pp. 232–7.

40. William Hauptmann, John Webber, 
1751–1793: Pacific Voyager and Landscape 
Artist (Manchester, 1996); Susan 
Sloman, William Alexander: Image of 
China (London, 1980).

41. Mildred Archer and Toby Falk, India 
Revealed: The Art and Adventures of James 
and William Fraser 1801–35 (London, 
1989); Joachim K. Bautze, Interaction 
of Cultures: India and Western Painting, 
1780–1910. The Ehrenfeld Collection 
(Alexandria, Virginia, 1998).

42. Jean Campbell, Australian Watercolour 
Institute 1923–1980, www.awi.com.
au/home/History.aspx, accessed 
13 November 2014.

43. Basil Burdett, The Felton Bequests: 
A Historical Record 1904–1933 
(Melbourne, 1935).

44. William H. Gerdts, Winslow Homer in 
Cullercoats, Yale University Art Gallery 
Bulletin, 36, no. 2 (spring 1977), 
pp. 18–35.

45. M. Breuning, ‘Contemporary 
Watercolor Painters’, International 
Studio (January 1926) quoted in Barbara 
Dayer Gallati, ‘Language, Watercolor 
and the American Way’, Linda S. Ferber 
and Barbara Dayer Gallati, Masters 
of Color and Light: Homer, Sargent and 
the American Watercolor Movement 
(Washington, 1998) p. 167.

46. Edgar Preston Richardson, 
‘Watercolour, the American medium?’, 
Art News (April 15–30, 1945) pp. 20–22, 
29–30; Frederic Whitaker, ‘Watercolor, 
the American medium’, American 
Artist (June 1962) pp. 64–75. See 
Carol Troyen, ‘A War Waged on 
Paper: Watercolor and Modern Art in 
America’, in Sue Welsh Reed and Carol 
Troyen, Awash in color: Homer, Sargent 
and the Great American Watercolour 
(Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, 1993) 
pp. xxxv–lxxiv.

47. Marilyn S. Kushner, The Modernist 
Tradition in American Watercolors 
1911–1939 (Mary and Leigh Block 
Gallery, Northwestern University, 
Chicago, 1991) p. 2, in Ferber and 
Gallati (1998) p. 145.

48. Ruskin (1903–12) XX, p. 120.



The collection of British drawings in the Ashmolean 
Museum is one of the largest and most representative in 
the world.1 As with other parts of the collections belonging 
to the University of Oxford, its formation has been long 
and complex, and created largely by gifts and bequests, 
often from old members of the University. When the 
Ashmolean Museum was opened in 1683, it housed not 
only the natural and man-made curiosities assembled by 
Elias Ashmole and the Tradescants, but also the library 
they had formed. Among the most celebrated volumes is 
a collection of drawings of fruits known as ‘Tradescant’s 
Orchard’. This and many other such volumes could be 
said to be the first British drawings to enter the collection. 
However, they were transferred at an early date to the 
Bodleian Library, which remains an important repository 
of British drawings, especially those relating to topography 
and natural history. The earliest acquisition now in the 
Ashmolean is William Faithorne’s portrait of John Aubrey, 
which was presented to the Museum in 1689 (fig. 19).2

However, it was not until the inauguration of the 
University Galleries in 1845 that the University consciously 
began to collect fine art for display, rather than to decorate 
a library or to be consulted in the same way as books. The 
acquisition of the celebrated drawings by Michelangelo 
and Raphael from the collection of the portrait painter Sir 
Thomas Lawrence enabled the new institution to become 
almost the first after the British Museum to include 
permanent displays of drawings. Benefactors including 
the first Earl of Ellesmere (1851) and Chambers Hall (1855) 
no doubt saw their gifts as complementing the Lawrence 
drawings, and it is perhaps ironic that Hall gave his best 
English drawings, a splendid series of watercolours by 
Thomas Girtin, to the British Museum, reserving for the 
University Galleries his superlative groups of etchings 
by Rembrandt, Ostade, and Claude Lorrain; drawings 
by Rembrandt, Claude, and Leonardo da Vinci; and oil 
sketches by Rubens and Van Dyck. Among other British 
artists, he had a predilection for Richard Wilson, and 
included several oils and drawings in his gift. These joined 
the watercolours commissioned by the University Press to 
decorate the Oxford Almanack, which had been deposited 
in the Galleries in 1850; among the artists represented 
were Peter de Wint and J.M.W. Turner (cats 32 and 47).

British Drawings in the 
Ashmolean Museum

Colin Harrison

Detail from Dante Gabriel Rossetti, 
Dante drawing an Angel on the Anniversary 
of Beatrice’s Death (cat. 62)



Whereas Hall had a distinctive taste for the sketchy 
and his motives in collecting were primarily aesthetic, 
the purpose of the next benefactor of British drawings 
was unashamedly didactic. As an undergraduate at Christ 
Church, John Ruskin would no doubt have examined 
attentively the early Italian paintings given in 1828 and 
1834 by W. T. H. Fox-Strangways, later fifth Earl of 
Ilchester; but would certainly have been aware that there 
was nothing comparable in most other colleges. As a ‘graduate 
of Oxford’, he devoted his first major publication, 
Modern Painters (1843) to J. M. W. Turner, and it was on the 
completion of the final volume of this series in 1860 that 
he decided to give to his old University 38 watercolours 
by Turner, together with 12 leaves from a sketchbook that 
are now attributed to William Turner of Oxford (cats 46 
and 54). As he wrote to his old friend, Henry Acland, 
‘I don’t care to keep 1500 pounds worth of him in my table 
drawers, while I go abroad – or work at political matters’.3 
Ruskin’s gift was housed in specially made cabinets in 
the Turner Room at the top of the stairs in the University 
Galleries, next door to the large Raphael Gallery where 
Lawrence’s drawings were displayed. Some years later, in 
1869, Ruskin was appointed the first Slade Professor of 
Fine Art at Oxford. He noted that

I conceive it to be the function of this Professorship … to establish 
both a practical and critical school of fine art for English gentlemen: 
practical, so that, if they draw at all, they may draw rightly; 
and critical, so that, being first directed to such works of existing 
art as will best reward their study, they may afterwards make 
their patronage of living artists delightful to themselves in their 
consciousness of its justice.4

In 1871 he established his own Drawing School in the 
University Galleries. His teaching consisted largely of 
providing examples of works of art to copy, which he 
arranged in several series with ostensibly different functions, 
Educational, Rudimentary, and Reference, which 
were stored in frames in specially constructed bookcases. 
The contents of these series were fluid, as Ruskin added 
and subtracted items, but they included a large group 
of his own drawings, as well as further examples by 
Turner (cats 53, 55–6, 58). Unfortunately, his efforts were 
unsuccessful, and he admitted in 1884 that, ‘As for the 
undergraduates, I never succeeded in getting more than 
two or three of them into my school, even in its palmiest 
days’.5 Ruskin also ensured that a selection of Turner 
sketches and watercolours from the artist’s bequest to the 
nation was exhibited in Oxford from 1879 to 1906.

Although Ruskin was an early supporter of the Pre-
Raphaelite Brotherhood, he included no examples of 
their work in his teaching collection. Another of their 
early patrons, Thomas Combe (1796–1872), had collected 
their work from 1851 onwards, and the death of his widow 
in 1893 brought their fine collection to the University 
Galleries. It consisted primarily of oil paintings, but 
included several portrait drawings, and one of Rossetti’s 
most intense watercolours (cat. 62).

Numerically, the three most extensive gifts in the nineteenth 
century came not from collectors of works of art, 
but from collectors of imagery, some of which happened 
to be works of art. The first was the eccentric antiquary, 
Francis Douce (1757–1834), who bought books, drawings, 
and prints illustrating the manners and customs of earlier 
times.6 Among the incomparable riches in his bequest to 
the Bodleian Library was the largest surviving group of 
drawings by James Barry (cat. 18). Douce’s drawings and 
fine prints were subsequently transferred to the University 
Galleries in 1863, while the Bodleian Library retained his 
collection of manuscripts.

The second great iconographical collection was formed 
by Alexander Hendras Sutherland (1753–1820) and his 
wife, Charlotte Hussey (1782–1852), who were able to take 
advantage of the huge quantities of prints and drawings 
on the market during the years of the wars with France, 
allowing them to amass their vast collections, specifically 
designed to augment Lord Clarendon’s History of the 

Fig. 20 | Paul Sandby (1731–1809), Leith, 1747. 
Watercolour and some coloured chalk over indications in graphite, on paper. 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, WA.B.I.IV.240.131


Fig. 19 | William Faithorne (?1616–1691), John Aubrey, 1666. 
Black lead and wash, with red chalk and graphite, on vellum. 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, WA1904.3




Rebellion (1702–3) and Bishop Burnet’s History of his own 
Time (1724–34), as well as a few lesser titles. They eventually 
amassed nearly twenty thousand prints and almost 
1,500 drawings, predominantly British, to illustrate the 
characters, events, and places mentioned in their chosen 
texts. Among the drawings was the famous series of representations 
of the royal palaces, the panorama of London, 
and other sites, made by Anthonis van der Wyngaerde 
(active c. 1544–1570) at the behest of Philip II of Spain, 
husband of Queen Mary of England. The collection also 
boasts several drawings for the first comprehensive topographical 
survey of Scotland by Jan Wyck (c. 1645–1700), 
and three of Paul Sandby’s most beautiful early drawings, 
again views in Scotland (fig. 20).7 Among the dozens of 
portrait drawings are notable groups by George Vertue, 
Hubert-François Gravelot, and George Perfect Harding. 
Mrs Sutherland left clear instructions that the grangerised 
volumes should not be dismembered, and the only 
item from her collection in the present exhibition is the 
splendid 
Lely drawing of Sir Henry de Vic (cat. 2).

The third of these great accumulations of prints and 
drawings was formed by the Revd Frederick William Hope 
(1797–1862), who acquired tens of thousands of prints and 
a few drawings, of portraits and topographical subjects, 
which he presented together with his entomological 
collection 
to the University in 1850. The fund given to 
expand the collection has since the 1930s been spent on 
portrait drawings (cats 5–7, 40).

The Keeper who was most single-minded in building 
up the collection of British drawings, though his range 
also extended to sculpture and Renaissance plaquettes 
was Charles Francis Bell (1871–1966, fig. 21).8 As the 
nephew of Sir Edward Poynter through his mother, and 
the descendant of the great sculptor Thomas Banks, Bell 
might have been expected to enjoy Victorian art of all 
kinds, but his sympathies were less catholic. Apart from 
the punctilious cataloguing of the greater part of the 
collection he inherited when the Ashmolean Museum 
was united with the University Galleries in 1908, Bell 
laid a particular emphasis on the British watercolours. In 
1912 he succeeded in securing for the University one of 
the most important and interesting collections formed 
by an amateur artist, James Moore, in relation to his own 
research into architectural antiquities. This included not 
only Moore’s own sketches, but also watercolours by 
Dayes, Girtin, J. M. W. Turner, and others. Moore was 
not associated with Oxford, but his descendant Edward 
Mansel Miller (d. 1912) was a Fellow of Magdalen College. 
It was on the death of his sister, Miss H. L. Miller in 1915 
that her portion of the collection became available, and her 
trustees ceded it to the University at a very advantageous 
rate, to which Magdalen College contributed generously. 
Among the highlights was the extraordinary little drawing 
by Dayes of Durham Cathedral (cat. 31).

On the same occasion, Francis Pierrepont Barnard 
and Thomas Girtin, great grandsons of the artist Thomas 
Girtin, presented a number of related works. Bell cultivated 
Barnard assiduously. He had inherited works 
by Girtin and had formed a representative collection 
of English watercolours. Having begun his career as a 

Fig. 22 | Hubert Andrew Freeth (1912–1986), Sir Karl Theodore Parker, 1952. 
Pen and red ink, with watercolour on paper. Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, 
WA1968.461 © Martin, Tony & Richard Freeth


Fig. 21 | William Strang (1859–1921), Charles Francis Bell, 1910.
Three coloured crayons on a pale ochre preparation on paper. 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, WA1927.19




headmaster, Barnard moved to Liverpool as Professor of 
Medieval Archaeology. On the transfer of the Oxford coin 
collections from the Bodleian to the Ashmolean, he was 
appointed curator of coins in 1921, having earlier been 
elected an Honorary Fellow of his old college, Pembroke. 
His collection of watercolours was displayed in a special 
gallery in his house at Bilsbury, Lincolnshire. Bell was 
understandably dismayed when Barnard wrote to say 
early in 1927 that his investments had collapsed and he 
felt obliged to sell the collection. Fortunately, this came to 
nothing, and the arrival of Barnard’s bequest in 1934 transformed 
the holdings of English watercolours (cats 27–8).

Among the other benefactors during Bell’s period of 
office, one of the most remarkable was A. E. Anderson 
(d. 1938), who told Sir Sydney Cockerell, Director of the 
Fitzwilliam Museum, that ‘I simply cannot resist buying 
a beautiful work of art when I see it, and, as there is no 
room in my tiny cottage, there is nothing like presenting 
them to the great public museums, where they will have 
a safe refuge for many years to come. I should hate a 
sale for distribution far and wide after they have been 
collected together with such loving care’.9 The Ashmolean 
was one of several beneficiaries, which also included the 
Whitworth Art Gallery, Manchester, the Fitzwilliam 
Museum, Cambridge, and the National Gallery, London 
(cats 23, 29, 34).

Bell’s successor as Keeper was Kenneth Clark, who in 
turn was succeeded by Dr K. T. Parker (1895–1992, fig. 22). 
From a wholly different background, he had studied on 
the Continent, obtaining a doctorate in English literature 
at Zurich, and became one of the leading specialists in the 
world in Old Master drawings. He arrived in Oxford with 
a distinct prejudice against the polite English watercolours 
with which his predecessors had grown up, and coined the 
widely repeated epigram that ‘the only thing worse than 
an English watercolour is a faded English watercolour’.10 
Nevertheless, although his attention was focused primarily 
on Old Master drawings, which he bought with almost 
unparalleled brilliance, he also acquired some of the most 
significant British drawings in the collection. For example, 
he bought the six sepia drawings by Samuel Palmer of 
1825 in 1941, but only because their owner, J. G. Overbury, 
feared for their safety during the Blitz (cat. 22). It is largely 
thanks to Parker that the Ashmolean now has outstanding 
collections of drawings by Palmer, John Frederick Lewis, 
and Sir David Wilkie. He also bought Pre-Raphaelite 
works when they were available at very low prices, and 
made numerous gifts himself (cat. 79). His unerring sense 
of quality can also be seen in the selection of drawings he 
made from those distributed by the War Artists’ Advisory 
Committee in 1947 (cats 98–101).

Since the 1930s, many collectors and dealers have made 
significant donations to the Ashmolean. On the whole, 
they have been wide-ranging collections in which works by 
British artists were outnumbered by those of other nationalities. 
Nonetheless, the bequests of Mrs W. F. R. Weldon 
(1937) and Francis Falconer Madan (1962) brought many 
important British drawings and watercolours (cats 13–4, 
19, 66, 70). Another notable gift of carefully chosen 
works by British artists was that of Luke Herrmann, a 
former Assistant Keeper, who in 2002 distributed to 
several museums and galleries the drawings that he had 
inherited from Sir Bruce Ingram. Among those received 
by the Ashmolean were charming watercolours by George 
Chinnery and J. F. Lewis (cats 37, 39), which perfectly 
complement the drawings bought from Ingram’s heirs in 
1963 (cats 38, 119).

Parker had little interest in modernism, the abstract 
or the contemporary, and the same was largely true of 
benefactors to the Ashmolean in the twentieth century. 
It is only in recent years that an attempt has been made 
to acquire drawings by living artists. The portrait of Sir 
Salman Rushdie by Tom Phillips (cat. 114) is part of a 
representative 
selection of the artist’s works on paper 
bought in 2009. Other modern drawings have been 
presented by or through the Contemporary Art Society 
(cat. 104). The Acceptance in Lieu scheme has also, in 
this as in other areas of the collection in the Ashmolean, 
been fundamental, and enabled the acquisition of major 
drawings 
by Ben Nicholson (cat. 93) and, most recently, 
Frank Auerbach (cat. 113). In spite of these acquisitions, 
there are still many gaps in the Museum’s collection of 
British drawings. It must therefore be hoped that the 
enormous generosity of the Ashmolean’s many past 
benefactors can be matched by those of the future. 


Notes

1. This essay is based on the introduction to David Blayney 
Brown, Catalogue of the Collection of Drawings at the Ashmolean 
Museum, Oxford, IV: Early English Drawings (Oxford, 1982), 
supplemented by Jon Whiteley, Catalogue of the Collection of 
Drawings at the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, VII: French School 
(Oxford, 2000), and Christopher Brown, Master Drawings 
(Oxford, 2013).

2. Brown (1982) no. 123.

3. Luke Herrmann, Ruskin and Turner: A Study of Ruskin as a 
Collector of Turner, based on his gifts to the University of Oxford, 
incorporating a Catalogue Raisonné of the Turner Drawings in the 
Ashmolean Museum (London, 1968) p. 31.

4. Robert Hewison, Ruskin and Oxford: The Art of Education 
(Oxford, 1996) p. 17.

5. Hewison (1996) p. 24.

6. See The Douce Legacy: An Exhibition to commemorate the 150th 
Anniversary of the Bequest of Francis Douce 1757–1834 (Oxford, 
1984).

7. Brown (1982) nos. 234–6, 1650–2.

8. See the obituary by Sir Francis Watson in The Walpole Society, 
XLI (1968), pp. ix–x.

9. The Times, 26 November 1938.

10. Colin Harrison, ‘Parker, Sir Karl Theodore (1895–1992)’, 
Oxford Dictionary of National Biography online edn. (2007) 
http://www.oxforddnb.com/view/article/51272, accessed 
5 February 2015.

Fig. 23 | Gilbert Chesterton (1874–1936), Napoleon: an illustrated clerihew. 
Pen and black ink on pale brown paper. Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, 
WA1983.166




Detail from J. M. W. Turner, Venice:
The Riva degli Schiavoni (cat. 54)

Great British 
Drawings

Catalogue





Likeness,
Sensibility
& Vision

1650–1830

Detail from Henry Fuseli,
Satan, Sin, and Death (cat. 16)



1

Samuel Cooper 1609–1672

Thomas Alcock, c. 1650

Black chalk heightened with white on paper 
17.7 x 11.3 cm
Inscribed on the backboard of the original 
frame: This Picture / was drawne for mee / 
at the Earle of West- / -morelands house / at 
Apethorpe, in / Northamptonshire / by the 
Greate, tho’ little, / Limner, the then famous 
/ Mr. Cooper of Covent / Garden: when I was 
/ eighteen years of / age / Thomas Alcock / 
preceptor.
Bequeathed by Dr Richard Rawlinson, 1755
WA1897.33

Literature: Foskett (1974) no. 141; 
Brown (1982) no. 115; Stainton and White 
(1987) no. 74; Rutherford (2013) no. 43

Described in 1669 by Cosimo III de’ Medici as ‘a tiny man [piccinetto], all wit 
and courtesy’, Samuel Cooper is perhaps best known for his ‘warts and all’ 
portrait of Oliver Cromwell of the early 1650s, though in 1663 he was also 
appointed Court painter to Charles II following the Restoration.1 Only a handful 
of drawings by Cooper survive, but the quality of this portrait reveals him 
to be a highly skilled draughtsman. The black chalk is applied with confident 
economy, creating the soft shading of the face and loose curls of the hair with a 
freedom unexpected in a miniature painter. Edward Norgate, in his Miniatura, 
or the Art of Limning (c. 1646), specifically praised Cooper’s ‘crayon drawings’, or 
pastels, for their ‘likeness, neatness and roundness’.2

The turn of the head, the relaxed mouth and steady gaze of the young man 
bear a strong resemblance to a drawing thought to show Cooper’s uncle, John 
Hoskins, suggesting a similar date.3 The inscription on the back of the original 
frame identifies the subject as one Thomas Alcock, though there has been some 
conjecture as to who this may have been. He has most recently been identified 
as the author of the dedicatory epistle to a manuscript of The Famous Pathologist, 
or the Noble Mountebank, presented in 1687 to Lady Anne Baynton, daughter of 
John Wilmot, Earl of Rochester (1647–1680). This describes how Rochester, 
aided and abetted by Alcock, disguised himself as an Italian quack doctor 
‘Alexander Bendo’ and as a ‘grave Matron’ to gain access to ladies’ bedchambers. 
These escapades were said to have taken place c. 1675–6, after Rochester had 
been expelled from Court for his lascivious behaviour. If this is indeed the 
case, then the wide-eyed innocence of Alcock’s expression belies his somewhat 
dubious morality.

The title ‘preceptor’ indicates the role of tutor, and Alcock was employed 
by Mildmay Fane, 2nd Earl of Westmorland, to teach his numerous offspring, 
probably from about 1645. (Fane was imprisoned in the Tower of London 
in 1642–3.) A patron of the poet Robert Herrick, Fane wrote masques and 
poetry, and six of his ‘politicized entertainments’ were performed at his seat, 
Apethorpe, during the 1640s. His nephew, Francis Fane (d. 1691), was a 
friend of Rochester, so Alcock could have come to know the poet through his 
association 
with the Fanes. 

This drawing once belonged to the antiquary Dr Richard Rawlinson 
(1690–1755) who bequeathed it to the Bodleian Library, together with a large 
collection of books and manuscripts. One wonders whether Rawlinson, as a 
clergyman, would altogether have approved of Alcock’s antics. CP

1. Quoted in Rutherford (2013) p. 115.
2. Ibid.
3. Stainton and White (1987) no. 80.




2

Sir Peter Lely 1618–1680

Sir Henry de Vic, Chancellor of the Order of the Garter, c. 1665–70

Black oiled chalk, heightened with white, 
on blue-grey laid paper
49 x 31.8 cm
Inscribed: Chancellor of the Order; the 
original inscription: De Canclier ven d Ordre / 
de mantel violet fluweel [purple velvet mantle], 
is now beneath an engraved portrait of the 
artist in Sutherland’s Grangerised copy of 
Dibdin’s Bibliographical Decameron (Bodleian 
Library)
Presented by Mrs A. H. Sutherland, 1837
WA.B.II.722

Literature: Millar (1978) no. 114; Brown 
(1982) no. 154; White, Whistler, Harrison 
(1992) no. 89

Seen as the successor to Van Dyck as the most prominent portrait painter in 
England, Lely was appointed principal painter to Charles II in 1661. The 30 or 
so drawings he made of members of the Order of the Garter have been described 
as ‘among the most powerfully baroque drawings ever produced in England’.1 
Now scattered among numerous collections, they illustrate the procession 
that took place annually on 23 April, the Feast of St George. The elaborate 
ceremonies 
of the Order were revived following the Restoration, with the 
formal robes being completely redesigned. 

Lely may have been inspired by an oil sketch he owned by Van Dyck showing 
Charles I and the Knights of the Garter in Procession (1638).2 This served as model 
for tapestries to decorate the Banqueting Hall in Whitehall. Lely’s drawings 
are also related to prints designed by Wenceslaus Hollar (1607–1677) for Elias 
Ashmole’s Laws and Ceremonies of the Most Noble Order of the Garter (1672). Here 
Sir Henry de Vic (c. 1599–1671), a Guernsey-born courtier appointed Chancellor 
in 1660, holds himself formally erect, as befits his position. Lely displays great 
skill in his representation of the fall of light over the heavy velvet mantle, in 
contrast to the mechanically repeated vertical pleats of Hollar’s figures. The 
three-tasselled 
purse carried by de Vic is very similar to Hollar’s print of the Bag 
of the Seal of the Garter, while the large tassel dragging on the floor also appears 
in Hollar’s etching showing the Chancellor’s mantle.3 These accurate details 
suggest access to the ceremonial robes themselves. 

There is no evidence of a specific commission for the procession drawings. 
However, as offsets exist for several of them, they were probably working 
drawings 
of some kind; a double offset of this drawing is in the British 
Museum.4 The fact that the figures are sometimes shown in pairs implies that 
they formed part of a larger compositional whole, rather than being individual 
portraits; but the high degree of finish suggests that they were commissioned 
by an important client.5 As Lely’s friend, the architect Hugh May, carried out 
renovations for Charles II at Windsor in the 1670s, Lely may have designed a 
scheme for tapestries or mural decoration for the new state apartments there.

This fine drawing was originally bound into an extra-illustrated edition of 
Bishop Burnet’s History of his own Time (1724–34), where it illustrated a reference 
to Burnet’s tenure as Bishop of Salisbury from 1689. De Vic was the last lay 
Chancellor of the Order, and following his death the role was conferred on the 
Bishop of Salisbury. CP

1. Millar (1978) no. 114.
2. Ashmolean Museum, WA2002.55.
3. British Museum, 1855,0811.175 and 1871,1209.2274.
4. 1946,0713.1267.a.
5. Stainton and White (1987) pp. 129–37.




3

Edmund Ashfield 1640–1679

Portrait of an Unknown Man, 1673

Coloured chalk with some bodycolour on 
buff laid paper
26.8 x 21.8 cm
Signed and dated: EA F 1673
Purchased, 1955
WA1955.34

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 56; 
Jeffares (2006) p. 38

According to Neil Jeffares, the pastellist Edmund Ashfield was born in Little 
Missenden, Buckinghamshire, the son of Hampden Ashfield and the grandson 
of Sir Edmond Ashfield of Chesham, to whom Henry Peacham dedicated 
his treatise on drawing, Graphice, published in 1634. Bainbrigg Buckeridge 
described Ashfield as ‘a gentleman well descended’ in his ‘Essay Towards an 
English School of Painters’ of 1706.1 

The antiquary Thomas Hearne (1678–1735) praised Ashfield in 1709 as 
having ‘a Genius for painting, especially for Craons’, while Buckeridge noted 
that he was the first to increase the number and variety of tints in pastel, using 
them to paint in imitation of oils ‘with equal force and beauty’.2 Most of his 
known works date from between 1673 and 1676, and according to Buckeridge 
he practised 
‘with deserved applause’, charging as much as £10 a head for his 
portraits.3 He seems to have moved from his London home in Holborn Row, 
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, to Tickenham Court in Somerset following his marriage to 
the wealthy heiress, Eleanor Goodricke, in 1676.

In his Epitome of Painting (1683), the pastellist Edward Luttrell (c. 1650–1737), 
who appears to have been trained by Ashfield, explained how his master freed 
pastel from its role as a preparatory medium for the making of engraved 
portraits and ‘brought itt to a perfection’, so that it came to be valued in its own 
right. Ashfield’s memory will never die, he declared, ‘Butt ever flourish whiles 
tyme permitts those admirable pictures to endure … as Monuments of his 
Ingenuity’.4 The extraordinary state of preservation of this drawing shows how 
brilliant pastels were in colour and indicates why such works came to be highly 
prized by contemporaries as finished portraits, increasingly valued on a par with 
oil paintings, though somewhat cheaper.

The tonal depth and high level of finish in this magnificent portrait – one of 
the earliest by Ashfield to survive – demonstrates the new, more painterly use 
of coloured chalks. However, the buff paper is still used as a middle tone in the 
white stock under the sitter’s chin and in the sleeve, in the traditional manner. 
The richness of tone in the hair and eyes rivals the qualities of oil painting, while 
the glints of pure white picked out in the eyes, lip, and brooch are dazzling 
in their intensity. Such unabashedly eye-catching qualities were to lead later 
eighteenth-
century commentators, including the satirist John Wolcot (alias 
‘Peter Pindar’), to criticise pastel as a ‘meretricious’ and showy medium, not 
worthy of the serious consideration of connoisseurs. CP

1. Buckeridge (1754) dedication. 
2. Quoted in Neil Jeffares, http://www.
pastellists.com/Articles/Ashfield.pdf, accessed 
9 January 2015.
3. Buckeridge (1754) p. 355.
4. Quoted in Neil Jeffares, http://www.
pastellists.com/Articles/Ashfield.pdf, accessed 
9 January 2015.




4

William Faithorne ?1616–1691

Portrait of a Man, probably Thomas Dare, 1679

Pastel and black chalk on cream laid paper 
26.7 x 21.6 cm
Inscribed and dated: To the Kings most 
Excelent Maj:tie / January: 26. 1679. / W. 
Faithorne delt
Purchased, 1940
WA1940.50

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 125

Having trained initially as an engraver, William Faithorne fought for the 
Royalist cause beside his master, Robert Peake, in the early 1640s, and was 
imprisoned following the two-year siege of Basing House. The delicate details 
of this sensitive portrait in pastel and chalk suggest the influence on Faithorne’s 
style of his extended period of banishment in Paris during the Civil War, 
between 1647/8 and 1651/2. There, he absorbed the French vogue for highly 
finished 
portrait drawings, notably those by the portrait engraver Robert 
Nanteuil (1623–1678). 

On his return to London in 1651/2 Faithorne established a print shop at 
Temple Bar, dealing in foreign prints and artists’ materials. He became highly 
regarded for his engraved frontispieces, book illustrations and, especially, 
his portrait prints, considered by Horace Walpole to represent the very best 
produced in seventeenth-century England. In 1660 he was appointed ‘engraver 
in copper’ to Charles II. The diarist Samuel Pepys records a visit to Faithorne’s 
shop on 7 November 1666, when he especially admired a portrait in coloured 
chalks, a highly fashionable medium in this period: ‘The picture in chalke is the 
finest thing I ever saw in my life, I think’.1 A prolific yet subtle draughtsman, 
Faithorne here uses the buff colour of the paper to create a halo of light round 
the subject’s head, lifting the effect of the formal wig with its tight curls.

Shortly after the date of this work, Faithorne retired from his shop to 
Blackfriars, where he concentrated on producing chalk portraits. This example 
is presumed to represent the wealthy Dissenter Thomas Dare II (1643–1685), 
who was an eminent silversmith and one of the burgesses of Taunton, Somerset. 
Examples of his work can be found in the Bishop’s Palace in Wells and the 
Museum of Somerset. In January 1679, Dare presented a petition to Charles II, 
requesting that he take action against Popish Recusants; the scroll is depicted 
in his right hand. Having been jailed for sedition, he fled to Holland, where 
he became Paymaster General of the doomed Monmouth Rebellion of 1685. 
Shortly after landing on the Dorset coast, an unfortunate altercation took place 
over a horse between Dare and the Scottish cavalry commander of the rebellion, 
Andrew Fletcher of Saltoun. Infuriated at being whipped by Dare, Fletcher shot 
him dead, instantly depriving Monmouth of valuable financial backing and local 
West Country influence. 

Bainbrigg Buckeridge quotes the following lines of verse: ‘A Faithorn sculpsit 
is a charm can save / From dull oblivion, and a gaping grave.’2 Dare’s portrait 
does not appear to have been engraved, but his appearance is nonetheless 
preserved. CP

1. http://www.pepysdiary.com/diary/1666/ 
11/07/, accessed 9 January 2015.
2. Buckeridge (1754) pp. 371–2.




5

Sir Godfrey Kneller 1646–1723 

Henry Aldrich, Dean of Christ Church, 1696

Black chalk heightened with white, 
on rough grey laid paper
29.2 x 23.3 cm
Purchased (Hope Fund), 1934
WA1934.412

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 151; 
Stewart (1971) no. 44; Stewart (1983) III 
no. 34

James Northcote, assistant to Sir Joshua Reynolds, remarked in the 1810s that 
Kneller’s works had fallen in esteem, for ‘the great mass of his works are such 
hasty slobbers, that they are scarcely fit to be seen’.1 This lively portrait with its 
vigorous handling demonstrates the unfairness of this judgment, underlining 
the genius of Kneller at his best: George Vertue described him as ‘the Morning 
Star for all other Portrait Painters in his Time’.2

Vertue particularly praised Kneller’s ability to capture a true likeness. 
This rapidly executed sketch has all the immediacy of a portrait taken from 
life, catching the essential qualities of Dean Aldrich (1648–1710). An erudite 
logician, collector, composer, and amateur architect, he must have been a 
highly sympathetic and stimulating sitter. Aldrich became Vice-Chancellor of 
the University of Oxford in 1692, and it was partly through his good offices 
that Kneller was awarded an honorary doctorate in 1695. This is undoubtedly 
a preparatory study for the portrait of Aldrich now at Christ Church, probably 
occasioned by this event; it is dated 1696 from a mezzotint by John Smith.3 

Kneller introduced into England the practice of drawing heads full-size so 
that they could be transferred directly on to canvas, rather than being squared 
up; the fact that the painting is in reverse of the drawing suggests that he used an 
offset method for transfer. The study is similar in technique to Kneller’s portrait 
of the engraver Peter Vanderbank, with its deft application of highlights and 
fluent curves of loosely falling hair.4 The sharpest touch of white and the darkest 
touch of black appear below and above Aldrich’s right eye respectively, drawing 
us into his gaze. Multi-directional hatching around the jowls and forehead 
describe the forms in the manner of an engraving, while Kneller’s characteristic 
zigzag shading can be found beneath the right eye, around the chin and in 
the ear lobe. There is a Baroque verve in the drawing that reflects the lively 
intelligence 
of the sitter. 

In the painting, the head is tilted back slightly, giving Aldrich a somewhat 
guarded expression. He appears more idealised than in the drawing, acquiring a 
magisterial air at the expense of humour. In reality Aldrich had a reputation as a 
bon viveur and ‘punner of the first value’, producing a translation from Latin of a 
popular poem on drinking: 

If all be true that I do think,

There are five reasons we should drink,

Good wine, a friend, or being dry,

Or lest we should be by and by,

Or any other reason why.5 CP

1. Quoted in Stewart (1971) p. 6.
2. Quoted in J. Douglas Stewart, 
‘Kneller, Sir Godfrey, baronet (1646–
1723)’, Oxford Dictionary of National 
Biography, online edn. (2010), www.
oxforddnb.com/view/article/15710, 
accessed 6 January 2015.
3. National Portrait Gallery, D11585.
4. British Museum, P,7.214.
5. Quoted in Suttle (1940) p. 128.



Fig. 24 | After Godfrey Kneller (1646–1723), 
Henry Aldrich, Dean of Christ Church, 1696. 
Oil on canvas. Christ Church, University of 
Oxford, LP 105 © By permission of the Governing 
Body of Christ Church, Oxford




6

Jonathan Richardson 1665–1745

James Figg, 1714

Black, white and pink chalks on blue 
laid paper
29 x 22.5 cm
Inscribed by Richardson the Younger: 
Figg Gladiator ad Vivum 14. Inscribed:1714
Purchased (Hope Fund), 1945
WA1945.135

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 1532; 
Stainton and White (1987) no. 182

James Figg (before 1700–1734) was a prize-fighter born at Thame in 
Oxfordshire, where the name of a public house still records his fame. The fact 
that this drawing describes Figg as a ‘Gladiator’ rather than a bare-knuckle 
boxer ties his use as a model to the academic tradition, conjuring up images 
of the classical statues later used as examples in the Royal Academy drawing 
schools, including the ‘Borghese Gladiator’.1 This Antique statue actually shows 
a swordsman, which is appropriate since Figg ran a school for arms in London 
from c. 1714, instructing his students in fencing and the use of the backsword 
and quarterstaff. He opened an amphitheatre in Oxford Road (now Oxford 
Street), where sporting competitions and exhibitions of swordsmanship were 
held, and also taught the arts of self-defence to wealthy pupils from the gentry 
and nobility. In 1729, as a result of these social contacts, he was appointed 
gatekeeper of Upper St James’s Park.

Figg’s fame led to his being portrayed in William Hogarth’s engraving 
Southwark Fair (1734), where he regularly demonstrated his skill in different 
forms of combat. He sits astride a horse on the far right of the print, 
grim-
faced, with sword raised.2 A similarly focused, frowning expression 
appears in Richardson’s study of Figg, inscribed in the handwriting of the 
artist’s son as having been taken from the life. Soldiers and prize-fighters 
such as Figg were often selected by artists to act as life models because of their 
well-defined musculature. 
They may also have been seen to embody the spirit of 
Greek classical 
art through their physical prowess and bravery; the inscription 
under John Faber’s mezzotint (1727–9) of Figg, after a painting by John Ellys, 
celebrates 
‘The Vigour of his Arme, the Quickness of his Eye’.3

The loose handling of this drawing is in strong contrast to the tight control 
of Richardson’s portrait of Dr Mead (cat. 7), partly dictated by the medium 
of black chalk, which lends itself to sweeping strokes and soft modelling. 
Richardson has used more blending and smudging here than in some of his 
other chalk drawings, which are often sharply hatched in all directions. The 
modelling of the muscles in the arms and concern for an exact outline to the 
figure seem to be the artist’s primary focus. The use of black chalk with white 
heightening, employing the blue of the paper as a middle tone, is typical of 
life-drawing techniques in this period, and the style of Kneller’s Great Queen 
Street Academy in particular. CP

1. See, for example, Musée du Louvre, MR 224.
2. British Museum, 1868,0822.1515.
3. National Portrait Gallery, D1948.




7

Jonathan Richardson 1665–1745 

Dr Richard Mead, c. 1739

Graphite on vellum
17.8 x 13.8 cm
Inscribed on old mount: Dr Mead
Purchased (Hope Fund), 1938
WA1938.110

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 1534 

At his death in 1745, Jonathan Richardson left almost 550 of his own portrait 
drawings to his son. These can be broadly divided between carefully finished 
studies in plumbago, or graphite, on vellum, and looser sketches in black and/or 
red and white chalks on blue paper, such as that of James Figg (cat. 6). Carol 
Gibson-Wood has plausibly argued that the more finished portraits might have 
been designed for the purposes of private contemplation – part of a personal 
album depicting people of importance in Richardson’s life. This would have 
acted as a form of memento mori, in line with his theory of portraiture as a genre 
that encouraged moral improvement through contemplation of the deeds of 
great men.1 

Certainly, the life of Richard Mead (1673–1754) was an inspiring one. He rose 
to eminence in the field of medicine, as well as being a respected bibliophile and 
collector of antiquities, curiosities, and works of art. Best known, perhaps, for 
his support for the Foundling Hospital, one of the first venues for the public 
viewing of art in Britain, Mead also made his personal collection available to 
artists and to the public. 

This portrait seems to have been based on a detailed drawing in coloured 
chalks on blue paper in the British Museum. Dated 5 October 1738, it was 
doubtless 
preparatory to Richardson’s portrait of Mead, produced c. 1738 
(fig. 26). There is no doubt that this was a working drawing from life – a second 
attempt at drawing Mead’s lips has been made in the lower left part of the sheet. 
The portrait gives Mead a fuller, blander face, and lacks the sensitivity and 
psychological penetration of the drawing.

The Ashmolean portrait on vellum is most closely connected with a profile 
portrait of Mead.2 The two works must have been made at the same time, as 
they use the same media and are of the same size; the heads both measure 
exactly 8 cm from hairline to chin. The profile was produced as an etching, 
though there does not appear to be an equivalent print for the full-face version.3

The quality of drawing in the Mead portrait is deft and precise, deliberately 
emulating the technique of Old Master drawings in silverpoint which 
Richardson admired and collected. Dense hatching in closely packed parallel 
strokes describes the surface of the face, while the hair is more economically 
drawn with repeated calligraphic curves, highly characteristic of this artist. The 
handling displays great delicacy without losing the spontaneity of the original 
sketch. CP

1. Gibson-Wood (1994) pp. 203–29, especially 
pp. 209–13.
2. Ashmolean Museum, WA1936.193.
3. British Museum, Q,1.107.



Fig. 25 | Jonathan Richardson the Elder 
(1665–1745), Portrait of Dr Mead, 1738. Red, black 
and white chalk on blue paper. British Museum, 
London, 1902,0822.37 © Trustees of the British 
Museum
Fig. 26 | Jonathan Richardson the Elder 
(1665–1745), Portrait of Dr Mead, c. 1738. Oil on 
canvas. National Portrait Gallery, London, 4157 
© National Portrait Gallery, London




8

Allan Ramsay 1713–1784

A Nude Woman seen from Behind, probably 1754–7

Black and white chalk touched with red on 
blue paper
41 x 27.5 cm
Presented by Percy Moore Turner, 1942
WA1942.24

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 1508

Allan Ramsay’s father, the distinguished poet and author Allan Ramsay 
(1684–1758), joined a group of friends in establishing the short-lived Academy of 
Saint Luke in Edinburgh in 1729, where the artist made his first copies after Old 
Master drawings and casts of Antique sculptures. He later studied with Hans 
Hysing (1678–1752) in London, and made the first of his four journeys to Italy 
in 1736–8. With strongly antiquarian interests, he made drawings of classical 
statues in the Uffizi in Florence, and in Rome. Although Ramsay was formally 
instructed by the portrait and history painter Francesco Imperiali (1679–1740), 
he also frequented the life class in the French Academy. 

In spite of this assiduous study, on his return to England, George Vertue 
complained that ‘I don’t understand, when he draws in the Accademy [sic] from 
human nature he has any great skill or practice therein’.1 Nevertheless, Ramsay 
quickly became the most prominent portrait painter in London, his sitters 
including leading Scottish and English aristocrats. In 1745 he was summoned 
to Holyroodhouse to paint the young Pretender, Prince Charles Edward Stuart, 
and his portrait of Flora MacDonald became one of the most popular of the 
century.2 In his Dialogue on Taste (1755), Ramsay explained his conception of the 
‘natural portrait’, which owed much to his French contemporaries.

It has been convincingly argued that Ramsay’s second visit to Italy, from 
1754 to 1757, marked a period of decisive change in his style, away from the 
slight hardness and glassy surface of the early portraits towards a softness and 
malleability characteristic of his last decade.3 In Rome he took lodgings on 
the unfashionable Viminale, far from the high life of the Piazza di Spagna. The 
architect Robert Adam noted that he was thus able to ‘preserve the greatest 
part of his time for painting, drawing and reading … and as Mrs Ramsay 
is of so good a family and Mumpy [as Ramsay was known] himself so rich 
they are no discredit’.4 They did, nevertheless, hold a popular weekly salon. 
Apart from painting a few portraits, Ramsay’s principal purpose was again 
to continue his studies. He went regularly to the French Academy, where, 
under its new Director, Charles-Joseph Natoire, life drawing had taken on 
greater importance, 
and where students were encouraged to make landscape 
drawings in the open air. Most surviving drawings from this period are of the 
male model, and it is possible that this female nude was made at the St Martin’s 
Lane Academy in 1758, after Ramsay’s return to London. Whatever the precise 
circumstances of its creation, its delicacy and refinement certainly owe much to 
the example of Natoire.5 CH

1. Quoted in Brown (1982) p. 518.
2. Ashmolean Museum, WA1960.76.
3. Campbell (2013) p. 25.
4. Ingamells (1997) p. 797.
5. Smart (1992) p. 119.




9

Sir Joshua Reynolds 1723–1792

Study of Charity, c. 1778

Pen and brown ink with wash over 
indications in graphite on paper
29 x 18 cm
Lent by the Warden and Fellows of 
New College, Oxford, 1997
LI838.1

Literature: Postle (1995) pp. 168–85; 
Mannings (2000) no. 2116

In 1777 Thomas Jervais was appointed to complete the stained glass renovation 
begun at New College, Oxford, in the mid-1760s. He recommended that 
Benjamin West provide the designs, but in July the commission was awarded 
to Sir Joshua Reynolds, partly through the negotiations of Thomas Warton, 
an academic who was also a friend of the artist. Reynolds was best known as 
a portraitist, 
but once elected to the Presidency of the newly created Royal 
Academy of Arts in 1768, he campaigned vigorously to raise the status of British 
art. His Discourses promoted artistic practice based upon a close study of the 
Antique and drawing after the live model, while he increasingly produced ‘fancy’ 
pictures and in 1773 exhibited his first major history painting, Count Ugolino and 
his Children.1

Reynolds had ample opportunity to study Antique sculpture and paintings by 
the Old Masters during his time in Italy in 1750–2, and he probably drew from 
the life model at the St Martin’s Lane Academy. Yet he later privately confessed 
that his draughtsmanship of the human figure was not as adept as it might be.2 
This is certainly borne out by this typically swift sketch of the figure of Charity, 
for the centre of the lower register in the New College west window, as the principal 
of the seven Virtues. Reynolds was originally requested to make ‘drawings 
or cartoons’, but recounted that ‘he had been so long in the use 
of the pallet and brushes, that he found it easier to him to paint 
them to drawing’.3 This had the additional benefit of providing 
a coloured exemplar for Jervais and enabling Reynolds to 
exhibit the preparatory paintings, judiciously advertising the 
commission to his London audience.

This early study follows Ripa’s Iconologia (first published 
1593), in which Charity suckles an infant held in her left arm 
with two children at her feet. The additional infant is a departure 
from Ripa’s emblem, and the lively pen-work indicates the 
improvisatory nature of the drawing. Reynolds later simplified 
the group and, sensitive to the mores of eighteenth-century 
society, removed the element of nudity. Furthermore, he based 
the subsequent compositions upon an engraving of an Antique 
statue of Niobe, while using Mrs Sheridan (née Linley) as 
a model, astutely combining his theoretical promotion of 
the Antique with the depiction of a recognisable celebrity. 
The Nativity for the window’s upper register, inspired by 
Correggio’s La Notte, also featured Mrs Sheridan, developed 
from an earlier, abortive plan, led by Reynolds, to decorate St 
Paul’s Cathedral. The New College commission received mixed 
reviews upon completion in 1785, but this initial study is an 
undeniably charming depiction of innocent merriment. KW

1. Knole, National Trust, 12993; 
Mannings (2000) no. 2172.
2. Postle (2005) p. 271.
3. Mannings (2000) p. 545.


Fig. 27 | Sir Joshua Reynolds (1723–1792), Charity, 
c. 1778. Oil on canvas. Ashmolean Museum, 
Oxford, WA1855.158
Fig. 28 | Thomas Jervais (d. 1799) after Sir Joshua 
Reynolds, Charity, c. 1778–9. Stained glass. New 
College, University of Oxford, © Courtesy of the 
Warden and Scholars of New College, Oxford /
Bridgeman Images




10

Charles Grignion II 1753–1804

Tan-Che-Qua, ‘Chitqua’ RA, 1771

Black and white chalk on buff paper
51.2 x 36.4 cm
Provenance unrecorded
WA.OA252

Literature: Brown (1984–5) p. 10

This large, impressive study shows ‘Chitqua’ (c. 1728–1796), a Chinese artist and 
modeller of portraits in clay, who travelled to England from Canton in 1769. 
Chitqua’s arrival in London caused great interest: he had an audience with King 
George III and received commissions for his portraits from the tea merchant, 
Thomas Todd, and the porcelain manufacturer, Josiah Wedgwood. James 
Boswell described him as an ‘ingenious artist’ and Wedgwood’s partner, Thomas 
Bentley, as ‘a goodnatured, sensible man, very mild in his temper and gentle in 
his motions’.1 His portrait was taken by John Hamilton Mortimer (1770–1), and 
in 1770 he exhibited one of his full-length clay figures, a ‘model of a Gentleman’, 
at the Royal Academy.2 Chitqua visited the Academy Schools in the spring of 
1771; he appears in the far left-hand corner of Johan Zoffany’s famous painting 
of the Academicians (1771–2), engaged in conversation with the miniature 
painter Jeremiah Meyer.3

Charles Grignion the Younger, nephew of the Huguenot engraver Charles 
Grignion (1721–1810), was admitted to the Royal Academy in 1769, after 
winning prizes for drawing from the Society of Arts, and studied with Giovanni 
Battista Cipriani. There are 8 portrait drawings by Grignion II of Royal 
Academicians in all, probably produced when they were sitting to Zoffany 
for his painting The Academicians of the Royal Academy (1772). The drawing of 
the painter Charles Catton (1728–1798), also in the Ashmolean, is specifically 
inscribed ‘Drawn at the Royal Academy / while standing to Zoffany’; it shows 
Catton together with the leg of the nude model.4 Another of Grignion’s 
drawings, 
portraying Dr William Hunter, the Academy’s Professor of Anatomy, 
is similarly inscribed, and posed as in Zoffany’s painting.5 The muscular male 
nude study on the verso of the Ashmolean’s Chitqua sheet also suggests the 
context of an Academy life-drawing class. Although the figure is not posed as 
in the Zoffany painting, his left arm is raised above his head, while in Zoffany’s 
work the model is having his right arm placed in a rope sling, to support it while 
holding just such a pose.

A second drawing by Grignion of Chitqua in profile was one of the eight 
drawings described above, sold in the Fitzroy-Newdegate sale of 1952.6 The 
technique of that drawing appears closer to those of Catton and Hunter, being 
more broadly hatched, and with Chitqua’s chin is tilted upwards, as in the 
Zoffany painting. The Ashmolean’s more finished study, idealising the sitter to a 
greater degree, could have been taken at a second sitting, perhaps with a painted 
portrait in mind. CP

1. Quoted in Brown (1984–5) p. 10. 
2. Royal College of Surgeons, London, RCSSC/P 242.
3. Royal Collection, IN 400747.
4. WA1952.28
5. Hunterian Museum, Glasgow, GLAHA42340.
6. Piper (1952) pp. 198–9.



Fig. 29 | Charles Grignion II (1754–1804), Study 
of a male nude, c. 1771. Black and white chalk with 
stump on buff paper. Ashmolean Museum, 
Oxford, WA.OA252 (verso)




11

Thomas Gainsborough 1727–1788

Study of a Woman, seen from the back, c. 1760–70

Black chalk and stump, heightened with 
white, on greyish-brown paper
49.4 x 30.8 cm
Bequeathed by Mrs Alice Jessie Mott, in 
memory of her husband Charles Egerton 
Mott, 1959
WA1959.9

Literature: Hayes (1970) no. 30; Brown 
(1982) no. 673; Rosenthal and Myrone 
(2002) no. 68 

Gainsborough moved from Ipswich to Bath in 1759 to exploit his talents among 
the city’s wealthy seasonal residents. Second only to London as a centre for 
fashionable 
celebrity, Bath attracted visitors from the upper reaches of society 
as well as hosts of musicians, actors, and ambitious businessmen. Increasingly 
engaged on full-length portraits but rarely employing a drapery painter, 
Gainsborough made a series of costume studies, sometimes using articulated 
dolls, to examine the elaborate folds and textures of contemporary fashions. 
He simultaneously developed a fluid painting style, perfectly suited to capturing 
the sumptuous flamboyance of eighteenth-century dress and subtle nuances 
of movement. 

Born in Sudbury, Suffolk, described by one contemporary source as 
‘Populous and Wealthy, being enrich’d by the Clothing-Trade’, Gainsborough 
came from a family which was historically involved in the town’s staple industry.
1 His sister was established as a milliner in Bath from 1762, so 
Gainsborough would have been well aware that his sitters’ attire might cost 
more than the commissioned portraits in which it was commemorated. The 
extravagant sophistication of the fashionable world was not lost on the artist, 
who, taking Van Dyck as his model, sought to create portraits of equivalent 
opulence and grace. The pace at which fashions changed allows the drawing to 
be dated to the 1760s, owing to the popularity of the mushroom-shaped hat.

Drawn from life, the superbly varied handling of black and white chalks 
communicates 
a sense of the woman’s movement as well as the luxurious 
layering 
of her costume, conveying the weight of her skirts, the diaphanous 
lightness of her apron and the frothy lace of her sleeves. The mid-tones of 
the paper are exploited to suggest a sense of volume with great economy, a 
technique 
developed from the example of Gainsborough’s teacher, Hubert-
François Gravelot (1699–1773). While the drawing remains primarily a study of 
drapery rather than of anatomy, as indicated by the clumsiness of the left foot, 
there is a refined eroticism in the dip between the shoulder blades uncovered by 
the slipping shawl and the revealing of the woman’s right ankle.

This was one of a group of studies kept by Gainsborough that he bequeathed 
to his wife. They subsequently passed to his younger daughter, Margaret and 
then to his great-nephew Richard Lane, who published a lithograph of the work 
in January 1825. When it was offered for sale at Christie’s in February 1831 it was 
among a lot described as ‘drawings by Gainsborough … received by the late Miss 
Gainsborough as favourite studies of her father’. KW

1. Quoted in Rosenthal and Myrone (2002) p. 17.




12

George Romney 1734–1802

A Lady Leaning on a Pedestal, 1777–8

Pen and brown ink and dark bistre washes 
over graphite on paper
40.5 x 30.5 cm
Presented by John Ruskin to the Ruskin 
Drawing School, 1875
WA.RS.STD.029.b

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 1559

This bold wash drawing was one of four by Romney in the Standard Series 
in Ruskin’s Drawing School showing full-length female figures. They were 
‘among the most valuable examples of art in the rooms’, according to Ruskin, 
who included them to demonstrate the ease of execution possible using a 
loosely applied flat wash.1 Ruskin believed these drawings to be the work of 
Romney’s great rival as the most fashionable portrait painter in London, Sir 
Joshua Reynolds, which is perhaps hardly surprising, given their resemblance to 
Reynolds’s classicising portraits of women.2 

This study most closely resembles Romney’s portrait of Elizabeth Capel, 
daughter of the 4th Earl of Essex, who in 1777 married John, 3rd Lord Monson. 
Painted in 1778, the work was presumably commissioned to commemorate her 
marriage.3 Though the pose is the same as in the final portrait, with upturned 
head, gracefully folded arms, and crossed ankles, the details of the background 
differ. The powerfully shadowed balustrade at the lower right of the drawing 
disappears in favour of a pillared one, while in the upper right of the painting 
there appears a domed classical building, perhaps suggesting the Temple of 
Vesta at Tivoli. 

Romney has employed bistre ink to map out the broad contrasts of light 
and shade within his final composition, demonstrating ‘the dominant power 
of chiaroscuro’ in his approach, and exemplifying Ruskin’s claim that ‘A really 
great painter can leave every form as he would finally have it, with dark wet blots 
of water-colour thus thrown’.4 After his return from Rome in 1775, Romney 
worked increasingly in this broad, spontaneous style. He often painted straight 
onto the canvas and made no preparatory drawings; according to John Wesley, 
he did ‘more in an hour than Sir Joshua did in ten’.5 Drawings such as this 
demonstrate the rapidity of Romney’s working methods and his increasing 
confidence as a draughtsman.

On the verso of this work is an even more freely executed sketch in graphite. 
This imaginary composition features numerous figures in violent action, and 
children sheltering with their kneeling mothers. The sheet therefore unites the 
twin aspects of Romney’s art: his productive public portrait business, carried 
on by day, and his private passion for literary and historical subjects, primarily 
indulged at night. CP

1. Ashmolean Museum, WA.RS.STD.030, WA.RS.
STD.033, WA.RS.STD.034. Ruskin (1903–12) XXI, 
pp. 259–60.
2. See, for example, Lady Elizabeth Compton 
(1780–2; NGA, Washington DC).
3. Private collection. A mezzotint after this 
painting by Norman Hirst, Lady Monson: The 
Setting Sun was published in 1907. Ten years before 
sitting to Romney, Elizabeth had been painted 
by Reynolds with her younger brother, George, 
Viscount Malden; Mannings (2000) no. 308.
4. Ruskin’s catalogue description to Sepia sketch of 
Leafage, WA.RS.RUD.290.
5. Wesley’s Journal, 5 January 1789.




13

Thomas Gainsborough 1727–1788

Milkmaid with two cows, 1770s

Black chalk and stump heightened with 
white, on coarse paper prepared with pink
24.1 x 32.3 cm
Bequeathed by Francis Falconer Madan, 
1962
WA1962.17.67

Literature: Hayes (1970) no. 404; 
Brown (1982) no. 681

During his early years in Suffolk, Gainsborough sketched assiduously from 
nature, in black chalk or pencil. However, as his fame grew and his portrait 
painting practice expanded, he left behind the meticulous naturalism of such 
early masterpieces as Cornard Wood (1748; National Gallery). After his move to 
Bath in 1759, he became resolutely opposed to painting actual views. As he told 
Lord Hardwicke, ‘with regard to real Views from Nature in this Country, he 
has never seen any Place that affords a Subject equal to the poorest imitations 
of Gaspar or Claude … if His Lordship wishes to have anything tolerable 
of the name of G. the Subject altogether, as well as figures etc must be of his 
own Brain’.1 

During his mature years, Gainsborough drew compulsively, both as a form 
of instruction, and as a recreation in the evening after the day’s work painting 
portraits. One of his acquaintances, William Henry Pyne, recorded that he had 
more than once ‘seen him make models, or rather thoughts, for landscape scenery, 
on a little old-fashioned folding oak table’, using cork or coal for foreground 
rocks, sand, and clay for the middle distance, lichens and mosses for bushes and 
broccoli for trees.2 These three-dimensional ‘thoughts’ were not designed to 
be drawn, but were rather a symptom of Gainsborough’s restless creativity. In 
fact, his landscape drawings were wholly imaginary, for, as he told his friend, 
William Jackson, ‘a person able to collect in the Mind, will certainly groupe in 
the Mind also; and if he cannot master a number of Objects, so as to introduce 
them in friendship, let him do but a few’.3 Almost invariably, Gainsborough’s 
landscapes included figures: ‘A regular Composition in the Landskip way should 
[
incorporate] figures to fill a place (I won’t say stop a Gap) or to create a little 
business for the Eye to be drawn from the Trees in order to return to them with 
more glee.’4

This drawing remains on its original mount signed by the artist, indicating 
that it was probably given away; Gainsborough made it a rule never to accept 
money for his drawings. It is unusual in concentrating on a close-up view of a 
milkmaid and two cows, one standing seen from the side, the other sitting and 
seen from the front, leaning against a tree. The composition is balanced on the 
right by another tree. The style is purposeful and deliberately inelegant: rough 
strokes in black and white chalks reflect the essential rusticity of the scene, and 
the pink-brown wash over the sheet gives it an appealing warmth. CH 

1. Quoted in Sloman (2011) p. 5.
2. Quoted in Sloman (2011) p. 8.
3. Quoted in Sloman (2011) p. 8.
4. Quoted in Belsey (2002) p. 33.




14

Thomas Gainsborough 1727–1788

Italianate Landscape with Travellers on a Winding Road, 1775–9

Black chalk with watercolour and 
bodycolour, on paper, varnished
22.5 x 30.9 cm
Bequeathed by Francis Falconer Madan, 
1962
WA1962.17.66

Literature: Hayes (1970) no. 370; 
Brown (1982) no. 680

As the supply of sitters for his practice as a portrait painter in Bath dried up, 
Gainsborough moved to London in 1774, settling at the grand address of 
Schomberg House in Pall Mall. He became increasingly experimental, both in 
subject matter and technique, which caused mounting strain in his relations 
with the Royal Academy, of which he had been a founder member in 1768. Yet 
after his death the President, Sir Joshua Reynolds, devoted his annual Discourse 
to the praise and analysis of Gainsborough’s genius, as founded on a sincere 
love of art and a desire to excel. Although he did not recommend Gainsborough 
as a model for students, Reynolds acknowledged that ‘all those odd scratches 
and marks, which, on close examination, are so observable … this chaos, this 
uncouth and shapeless appearance, by a kind of magick, at a certain distance 
assumes form, and all the parts seem to drop into their proper places; so that 
we can hardly refuse acknowledging the full effect of diligence, under the 
appearance 
of chance and hasty negligence’.1

In his drawings, Gainsborough used an almost bewildering variety of 
techniques; as his friend William Jackson observed, ‘No man ever possessed 
methods so various in producing effect, and all excellent – his washy, hatching 
style, was here in its proper element’.2 His most elaborate drawings were begun 
in Indian ink with white chalk highlights. They were then dipped in skimmed 
milk to fix the chalk, and reworked with wash and watercolour, before being 
varnished three times with spirit varnish, on both sides so that the paper did 
not curl. Because Gainsborough’s compositions were imaginary, and generally 
drawn in the evening, they are infinitely various. Here, he has adapted elements 
of the classical landscapes of Claude Lorrain and Gaspard Dughet – Italianate 
rustic buildings and an elegant bridge – and incorporated them in an airy 
composition, animated by a figure on horseback with an attendant in the 
foreground, a man resting by the side of the road, and other figures crossing 
the bridge. 

An inscription on the verso notes that this drawing was given by the artist to 
the father of Miss L. Loscombe, ‘an amateur and antiquarian’. This was possibly 
Benjamin Loscombe, who served as High Sheriff of Bristol in 1778 and was the 
son of a wealthy merchant, Joseph Loscombe (d. 1772). CH

1. Reynolds (1975) pp. 257–8.
2. Rosenthal (1999) p. 254.




15

Thomas Rowlandson 1756/7–1827

Landscape with Cattle Fording a Stream, c. 1795–1800

Pen and brown and black ink and 
watercolour over indications in graphite 
on paper
24.1 x 38.1 cm
Bequeathed by Miss Selina Adelaide 
Philippa Boyle, 1967
WA1967.52.38

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 1591; 
Hayes (1990) no. 55 

Rowlandson was admitted to the Royal Academy Schools in 1772 at the age 
of only 15. He became one of the most successful satirical printmakers of his 
age, producing social and political caricatures with a somewhat Hogarthian 
flavour. Being partly of French Huguenot extraction, he made frequent trips to 
France before the Revolution of 1789. From 1780, influenced by French artistic 
practise, 
he began to produce tinted watercolour drawings, moving away from 
the pure pen and grey wash that he had favoured previously. 

The extensive collection of watercolours formed by the diplomat Sir John 
Crampton (1805–1886) included a large group by Rowlandson, purchased 
in 1855.1 Although several of these works by Rowlandson were sold in 1923, 
possibly because they were thought morally dubious, many remained in the 
family by descent, and 16 were bequeathed to the Ashmolean in 1967. Two of the 
landscapes may be views of Cornwall. That shown here is very close to a version 
in a private collection inscribed ‘The river Camel, Cornwall’; the undulating 
hills certainly resemble other views of Cornwall made by Rowlandson in the late 
1790s.2 Both works could have been drawn during one of many visits to Devon 
and Cornwall, to stay with his friend and patron, the banker and bon viveur 
Matthew Michell (1751–1817), on the Hengar estate near Bodmin.

The subject of horses and cattle fording a stream was often repeated by 
Rowlandson. It owes much to the work of Gainsborough, as well as to more 
distant models including Claude and Rubens. Rowlandson had studied 
Gainsborough’s landscapes closely in the 1780s, producing aquatint and 
soft-ground etchings after his work for the series Imitations of Modern Drawings 
(c. 1784–8).3 Rowlandson’s fine penwork offers a picturesque variety of foliage, 
using marks very similar to those employed by Gainsborough in his drawings. 
The branches of the central and foreground trees have a rococo feel in their 
tightly twisted, snaking shapes, which contrast with the soft feathering of the 
shrubs on either side of the five-barred gate.

This wonderfully winding composition is beautifully lit, the dark 
foreground to the left balancing the fresh tints of the group in the bright stream 
and the sun-washed distant hills. The active movement of the animals towards 
the right contrasts with the stillness of the figures resting in the shade to the left, 
and the second dog sitting patiently in front of one of the tumble-down farm 
cottages. CP

1. McEvansoneya (2009) p. 104.
2. See Brown (1982) no. 1590. This was described 
as a view of ‘Cornwall’ on a former mount.
3. See also Ashmolean Museum, WA1974.238–41, 
for a set of Rowlandson’s sepia landscapes after 
Gainsborough, 1789.




16

Henry Fuseli 1741–1825 

Satan, Sin, and Death, 1776

Pen and brown ink and wash over pencil 
on paper
27.1 x 38.4 cm
Dated: Roma oct. 76. Inscribed: 16
Bequeathed by Dr Grete Ring, 1954
WA1954.70.198

Literature: Schiff (1973) no. 480; 
Brown (1982) no. 658

William Hogarth’s rare excursion into history painting, Satan, Sin, and Death 
(c. 1735–40; Tate), was one of the most influential of all his works, in spite of 
the low opinion of the artist’s contemporaries, who generally found it absurd. 
When an engraving of the picture was published in 1767, the original belonged 
to the celebrated actor, David Garrick. The episode is one of the most dramatic 
in Milton’s Paradise Lost, and was first selected for illustration by Sir John 
Medina in an edition of 1688. At the gates of Hell, Satan, who is on his way to 
tempt Adam and Eve, prepares to fight Death, but they are stopped by Sin, the 
‘snaky sorceress that sat Fast by hell gate, and kept the fatal key’ (II.724–5), 
who explains that Death is the result of the incestuous union between herself 
and Satan, and that they must all three work together for the destruction of 
the human race. In Hogarth’s painting, Satan on the left wears the costume 
of a Roman centurion, while Death is portrayed in the traditional form of a 
skeleton. 
Sin herself is ‘fair above’ with ‘serpent coils and encircling dogs’ below, 
as Milton described. 

Fuseli left his native Switzerland in 1763 and, apart from a protracted 
period of study in Rome, 1770–8, remained in England for the rest of his life, 
becoming an influential figure in the Royal Academy. He was encouraged in 
his ambitions as a history painter by Sir Joshua Reynolds, whom he met in 
1768. During his years in Rome, he studied the works of Michelangelo and his 
followers, and adopted their muscular, contorted forms. It was while he was in 
Rome that he made this drawing of Satan, Sin, and Death. He had been familiar 
with Milton’s poem for many years, since one of his mentors in Zurich, Johann 
Jakob Bodmer had translated it into German. In adapting the composition of 
Hogarth’s painting, 
which he must have seen in the original or known through 
a reproduction, 
Fuseli has overcome many of its weaknesses. All three figures 
are nude, and the muscular male figures have a great strength that Hogarth’s 
lack. Sin is pale, with outspread wings, and contrasts dramatically with Death, 
no longer a skeleton but a true Michelangelesque nude. The penwork is 
characteristically 
rapid and nervous, with the wash very swiftly applied. 

When in 1799–1800, Fuseli came to paint the same subject for his Milton 
Gallery, an attempt to emulate the success of Alderman Boydell’s Shakespeare 
Gallery in providing a permanent display of history paintings in London, he 
used a similar composition to even greater dramatic effect.1 CH

1. Los Angeles County Museum of Art, 59.56.



Fig. 30 | William Hogarth (1697–1764), Satan, 
Sin, and Death (A Scene from Milton’s ‘Paradise Lost’), 
c. 1735–40. Oil on canvas. Tate, London, T00790 
© Tate, London 2014




17

John Hamilton Mortimer 1740–1779

Monsters, ?1779

Pen and black ink with watercolour 
on paper
41.9 x 28.2 cm
Bequeathed by the Revd Robert Finch, 1830
WA1971.72

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 1440; 
Sunderland (1986) no. 148

One of the most original and ambitious artists of the eighteenth century, 
Mortimer was also one of the most restless; he became notorious for his 
dissolute living and died at the early age of 38. Although he initially began 
studying as a portraitist, he always wanted to be a history painter, and found the 
studio of Robert Edge Pine (1730–1788) sympathetic to his ambition. He also 
made life drawings at the St Martin’s Lane Academy. After winning prizes for 
history painting awarded by the Society of Arts in 1763 and 1764, Mortimer’s 
career seemed assured. On the second occasion, the winning entry was a huge 
painting of St Paul Preaching to the Antient Druids in Britain, typically a subject 
from national history rather than the Bible or classical authors.1 

In the early 1770s Mortimer became more extravagant in dress and 
behaviour. He modelled himself on a great proto-Romantic hero, the 
Neapolitan artist Salvator Rosa (1615–1673), a specialist in wild landscapes populated 
by banditti. In 1770 Mortimer exhibited a painting entitled An 
Incantation, showing a grotesque witch casting a spell in a cave, while a 
young woman cowers before her and a skeleton gestures towards a book of 
incantations 
behind her.2 This composition was indebted to Rosa’s Saul and 
the Witch of Endor (Louvre, Paris), which Mortimer would have known from 
engravings, and which also inspired imitations by Henry Fuseli, Benjamin West, 
and William Blake. Mortimer also made paintings, drawings, and etchings of 
banditti that earned him the nickname ‘the English Salvator’.

The present drawing is one of the most extraordinary of what Mortimer’s 
contemporary, Edward Edwards, called his ‘horrible imaginings’. In the centre, 
an emaciated and almost naked man, with claws for feet, triumphs over a 
winged figure with a dragon’s tail and snakes for hair. John Sunderland has 
suggested that this may be the ‘washed drawing’ shown as Satan and Death at 
the Royal Academy in 1779, shortly after Mortimer’s own death. The freedom 
of the penwork owes much to his study of drawings by Guercino (1591–1666), 
which were extremely popular with English collectors. The use of watercolour, 
however, is unusual, and would seem to confirm the suggestion that this is an 
exhibition drawing.

Mortimer’s influence on the younger generation of artists was considerable, 
especially among the caricaturists. Both Thomas Rowlandson and James Gillray 
adopted his exuberant line, and frequently, his emaciated types in some of their 
most powerful prints. CH 

1. Now in the Guildhall, High Wycombe; 
Sunderland (1986) no. 13. 
2. Sunderland (1986) no. 36.




18

James Barry 1741–1806

Allegory of the Union of Britain and Ireland, 1800–1

Pen and black ink and grey washes over 
indications in graphite
70.5 x 52.9 cm
Signed: Jas. Barry Invt. Inscribed: Holy 
Evangelists
Bequeathed by Francis Douce, 1834
WA1863.1065

Literature: Pressly (1981) no. D40; 
Brown (1982) no. 360; Pressly (1983) no. 88

Drawings by the Irish artist James Barry are comparatively rare. This is 
surprising 
given that he devoted his career to the genre of history painting, 
which necessarily required extensive and elaborate preparation. The group of 
Barry’s drawings in the Ashmolean is the largest in existence, and comprises 
about a quarter of those surviving. They were nearly all bought by the antiquary 
Francis Douce, most at the studio sale in 1807.

This drawing was sent to William Pitt in 1800. Barry described it in a letter 
to Pitt as ‘a design for a picture and an engraving on the subject of the happy 
union of Great Britain and Ireland’, in the hope that the government would 
commission 
a painting of this subject.1 The Act of Union between Great Britain 
and Ireland was passed on 1 January 1801, following the dissolution of the 
Irish parliament, and united the legislatures of the two countries. Barry was 
optimistic 
that Catholic emancipation and other reforms would follow, in spite 
of the resignation of Pitt as Prime Minister. When he received no reply from 
Pitt, he suggested to the Royal Society of Arts that this design and another 
should be used for paintings to replace the portraits of Gainsborough and 
Reynolds in the Great Room. Although the majority of members approved of 
this proposal, the President, the Duke of Norfolk, objected for political reasons. 

In this composition, which combines allegorical with historical figures, Great 
Britain and Ireland are shown as equal; the scale held by the angel is perfectly 
balanced. The New Testament they hold refers to their shared Christian faith. 
In front of the altar is a group representing Aesop’s fable of the father, his sons, 
and the bundle of sticks, which cannot be broken together but only singly. 
A medallion of George III and Queen Charlotte hangs beneath a ram’s head. 
In the background on the right, personifications of envy, deceit, destruction, 
war, and folly are dispersed by divine thunderbolts held by an angel. In front of 
them a politician explains the benefits of the union. 

This sheet was followed by two others in which the composition is 
considerably 
simplified, the historical figures removed, and some poses 
altered.2 However, in a long inscription on the back of the second, Barry noted 
that, ‘Perhaps my first thought was better’. CH

1. Quoted in Brown (1982) p. 188. 
2. British Museum; Pressly (1981) nos. D42–3.




19

William Blake 1757–1827

The Baptism of Christ, c. 1803

Pen and black ink and watercolour over 
indications in graphite on paper
31.3 x 34.8 cm
Inscribed: WB inv. Inscribed on the 
mounting board: This is my beloved Son, in 
whom I am well pleased / Mattw; ch: 3rd. v. 
16th / And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up 
straightaway out of the water: and lo, the heavens 
were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of 
God descending like a dove and resting upon him. 
Bequeathed by Francis Falconer Madan, 
1962
WA1962.17.57

Literature: Butlin (1981) no. 475; 
Brown (1982) no. 386

In 1799 Blake received a commission for 50 small paintings at one guinea each 
from Thomas Butts, to whom he had probably been introduced by the artist 
John Flaxman. A clerk in the office of the Commissary General of Musters, 
Butts was to prove Blake’s most loyal patron. Subsequently, he commissioned 
an extensive series of watercolours, on which Blake worked from 1800 to 1805 
but with some produced as late as 1809, of which the Baptism is one of about 
80 known. Like the earlier series of tempera paintings these were of biblical 
subjects, with the exact selection of scenes left to Blake. 

From 1800 to 1803 Blake lived at Felpham, near Chichester, under the aegis 
of William Hayley. During this time he confessed to Butts that he had undergone 
a conversion related to his experience of walking on the seashore, and 
had emerged from unhappiness into the ‘light of day’, ‘to Embrace Christianity 
and Adore him who is the Express image of God’.1 The Baptism marks the first 
revelation of the divinity of the adult Christ, and while the later inscription 
identifies the source in Matthew chapter 3, by depicting the Baptist rather than 
Christ witnessing the descent of the Holy Spirit, Blake follows John 1.32–4. 

Reworking the iconography of his tempera of the Baptism, Blake simplified 
and reduced the number of figures, moderated the rapturous mood and 
reversed the figure of Christ so that, most unusually, he faces away from the 
viewer.2 All four gospels mention the opening of the heavens, but without any 
indication of the flaming glory of the ranked angels, singing accompanied by 
lyre, cymbals, and tambourines. It is possible that Blake’s colour palette here 
also alludes to the promise that Christ will baptise with fire rather than water. 
While baptising with his right hand, John raises his left in a gesture of blessing. 
Christ’s quiet modesty is in contrast to the Baptist’s ecstatic expression and 
dynamic musculature, 
which make him as prominent as the Messiah. This 
is entirely consistent with Blake’s characterisation of himself as a prophet. 
This image of compelling grace, exquisitely balancing serenity and revelation, 
demonstrates Blake’s profound understanding of the Bible as a stimulus to the 
imagination rather than an authoritarian text. KW

1. 22 November 1802, quoted in Rowland 
(2010) p. 3.
2. c. 1799–1800; Rhode Island School of Design 
Museum of Art, 32.219; Butlin (1981) no. 415.




20

William Blake 1757–1827

The Deity from whom proceed the Nine Spheres (illustration to Dante’s Divine Comedy,
Paradiso XXVIII), 1825–7

Watercolour and some pen and black ink 
over indications in graphite on paper
51.9 x 36.7 cm
Presented by The Art Fund, 1918
WA1918.4

Literature: Butlin (1981) no. 812.97; 
Brown (1982) no. 389; Klonsky (1980) 
no. 100

Struggling with ill health and living in penury at 3 Fountain Court, off the Strand, 
Blake met his fellow artist, John Linnell in 1818. Their friendship resulted in 
some of Blake’s most influential work, including in the summer of 1824 Linnell’s 
commission of the illustrations for The Divine Comedy. Blake produced 102 watercolours; 
some completed, others barely begun, with Blake apparently preferring 
to move back and forth rather than work in a sequential manner.1 He also created 
seven engravings, indicating that publication was eventually intended. 

Blake had some knowledge of Italian from his years in Sussex, where he 
learned ancient and modern languages. He had annotated Boyd’s edition of the 
Inferno (published 1785) in 1800, but now began to wrestle in earnest with Dante’s 
monumental epic. He further instructed himself in Italian, reading Sessa’s 
edition of 1564 as well as the 1819 edition of H. F. Cary’s first complete English 
translation of the poem. Visiting Blake on 9 October 1824, Samuel Palmer found 
him nursing a leg injury but ‘hard-working on a bed covered with books sat he up 
like one of the Antique patriarchs, or a dying Michael Angelo. Thus and there was 
he making in the leaves of a great book (folio) the sublimest designs from his (not 
superior) Dante’.2 Blake created the watercolours on Kent paper from the 1790s, 
subsequently bound into a volume. His last act of interpretative illustration, they 
demonstrate the cherished centrality of the book in his artistic achievement. 

While revering Dante as a poet, Blake undoubtedly took issue with his 
theology 
and politics. His annotation ‘Every thing in Dante’s Comedia shews 
that for Tyrannical Purposes he has made this World the Foundation of All’ may 
account for the reconfiguration of Dante’s Pseudo-Dionysian cosmology in 
this sheet.3 Blake substituted the Earth for the Deity as the point around which 
the spheres revolve, giving this drawing a hierarchical rather than a concentric 
arrangement. Possibly owing to the constricted space, he also conflated the 
innermost (here uppermost) sphere of the Seraphim with that of the Deity, who 
should reside separately. The difficulty of interpreting this illustration signals the 
complex nature of the Paradiso, in which Dante repeatedly requires his heavenly 
guide Beatrice to explain sights that are otherwise beyond comprehension. 

Nonetheless, this drawing intriguingly reveals Blake’s artistic process. 
Beginning in graphite, he broadly sketched simplified forms, such as the oval 
bisected by two lines for the head of the Deity. Next he developed these outlines 
with diluted ink and brush, before meticulously resolving details using pen and 
ink. Watercolour washes applied at various stages evoke the limpid beauty of the 
divine light of Paradise. KW

1. 72 illustrations for Inferno, 20 for Purgatorio 
and 10 for Paradiso: Butlin (1981) nos. 812.1–102.
2. Quoted in Hamlyn and Phillips (2000) p. 74.
3. Homer Bearing the Sword and his Companions, 
Harvard Art Museums, Fogg Museum, 1943.442; 
Butlin (1981) no. 812.7.




21

George Richmond 1809–1896

‘Boswood’s Thigh’ and the right arm of Michelangelo’s ‘David’, 1828

Red chalk, graphite and pen and brown ink 
on off-white wove paper
26.9 x 18.7 cm
Signed and dated: GR 1828 and inscribed 
under the appropriate studies, Boswood’s 
Thigh and M Ange
Purchased (Eldon Fund) with the assistance 
of The Art Fund and the Fenton Arts Trust, 
2002
WA2002.27

Literature: Sloman (2001) no. 6

It might have seemed natural that Richmond, as the son of a miniature painter, 
would become an artist. He began drawing the Antique marbles in the Towneley 
and Elgin galleries of the British Museum when he was only 12 years old, and 
enrolled at the Royal Academy Schools in December 1824, when he was still 15. 
From the evidence of several early drawings, he clearly admired the idiosyncratic 
style of the Keeper, Henry Fuseli, but his greatest influence was the aged 
William Blake, whom he met early in 1825. 

For a few years Richmond experimented with Blake’s technique of ‘fresco’ 
(pigment mixed with glue rather than oil). Indeed, Blake instructed him in 
anatomy for his first exhibit at the Royal Academy, Abel the Shepherd (1825).1 
His second submission to the Royal Academy in 1826, The Creation of Light, was 
even further indebted to Blake and to the Old Masters the elder artist revered 
above all, Dürer and Michelangelo; and was rejected.2 He continued to make 
drawings of historical subjects, a few of which he developed into paintings, until 
the early 1830s. However, following his marriage in 1831, he increasingly relied 
on portraiture for his income, becoming one of the most successful portrait 
painters of his day. 

In spite of his precocious start, Richmond continued his education at the 
Royal Academy Schools until at least 1828. This remarkable sheet includes two 
studies from the life class, and one from a cast. The identity of ‘Boswood’ is 
unknown, but his features and anatomy were recorded in other drawings by 
Richmond.3 A cast of the right arm of Michelangelo’s David had hung in the 
Antique Room of the Royal Academy since the 1770s. In his diaries, Richmond 
noted in June 1827 that he had made ‘A finished drawing of Michael Angelos 
Arm’; and a year later, he further ‘made a model of MA Arm’.4 Since Richmond 
went through his portfolios towards the end of his life identifying and dating 
them, it is possible that this sheet may have been drawn on the earlier occasion. 
It is unusual in consciously emulating the work of the Old Masters, in particular 
Michelangelo, in style and medium, especially in the use of red chalk. It is likely 
that Richmond had been able to examine some of the exceptional collection of 
Michelangelo’s drawings belonging to the President of the Royal Academy, Sir 
Thomas Lawrence (1769–1830). CH

1. Tate; see most recently Phillips (2014) nos. 238–9.
2. Tate; Phillips (2014) no. 236.
3. See fig. 31 and Sloman (2001) no. 7.
4. Quoted in Sloman (2001) no. 6.



Fig. 31 | George Richmond (1809–1896), Boswood, 
1829. Pen and ink. Formerly private collection, 
Prof. Philip Rieff, Pennsylvania




22

Samuel Palmer 1805–1881

The Valley with a Bright Cloud, 1825

Pen and brush in sepia mixed with gum 
arabic, on paper, varnished
18.8 x 23.2 cm
Signed and dated: SAMUEL PALMER / 1825
Inscribed on the old mount: This our life, 
exempt from public haunt, / Finds tongues in 
trees, books in ye running brooks, / Sermons in 
stones, and good in every thing / As you like it
Purchased, 1941
WA1941.105

Literature: Brown (1983) no. 8; 
Lister (1988) no. 54; Vaughan, Barker, 
Harrison (2005) no. 11

Palmer’s meeting with the elderly William Blake in the early months of 1824 
comprehensively changed his life. He had been a precocious but conventional 
landscape painter, having sold his first exhibited work at the age of 14. Blake 
gave him the confidence to pursue a wholly new genre of painting, the visionary 
landscape. Palmer and his young friends equated the aged artist with the 
Interpreter in Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress, the man who showed Christian the 
way to what would be profitable for his soul’s salvation. 

Even before he met Blake, Palmer would have known his woodcut 
illustrations 
to Robert Thornton’s The Pastorals of Virgil (1821). Ignoring the 
menacing tone of many of these images, Palmer described them as ‘visions of 
little dells, and nooks, and corners of Paradise, models of the exquisitest pitch of 
intense poetry’.1 The new direction in Palmer’s art can be seen in the sketchbook 
begun on 15 July 1824, in The Repose of the Holy Family (1824–5) and the six sepia 
drawings of 1825.2 The last best represent Palmer’s Neo-Platonic vision of the 
English countryside, the reflection of divine munificence as praised in Psalm 
104, ‘The earth is full of thy riches’. 

The Valley with a Bright Cloud is one of the six drawings which in later life 
Palmer had mounted in a single frame, with a quotation beneath each one. 
However, it is almost certain that this was a consequence of their fragility, 
and their failure to sell when several were exhibited individually at the Royal 
Academy in 1825 and 1826. They are the most original and most Romantic of all 
Palmer’s works. The technique, thick lines drawn with the brush in ink mixed 
with gum arabic, and the finer detail in pen, is unique in the history of English 
art, though ultimately derived from Blake’s ‘fresco’, pigment mixed with glue. 
Once completed, the composition was varnished with a layer of gum arabic, 
which would quickly have turned brown, as Palmer expected. 

Here, in the only daylight scene (all the others take place at twilight), the 
rounded hills recall those surrounding Dulwich or, more probably, the village 
of Shoreham in the Darent valley, where one of Palmer’s grandfathers lived. 
They are drawn in the strong outlines advocated by Blake, with the perspective 
abbreviated and distorted. The most prominent sign of man is the huge felled 
log in the foreground, another expression of God’s bounty. The billowing clouds 
are a more conventional symbol of divine immanence. CH 

1. Palmer (1892) pp. 15–6.
2. All in the Ashmolean; Lister (1988) 
nos. 46, 53–8; Vaughan, Barker, Harrison (2005) 
nos. 10–15, 28.




Travel & 
Topography

The Golden Age
of Watercolour

Detail from Edward Dayes, Magdalen College 
and Bridge, Oxford, from the river (cat. 30)



23

John Robert Cozens 1752–1797

Vesuvius and Somma from the Mola at Naples, 1782

Watercolour over indications in graphite 
on paper
30.5 x 45.5 cm
Presented by A. E. Anderson, through 
The Art Fund, 1924
WA1924.2

Literature: Bell and Girtin (1934–5) 
no. 322; Brown (1982) no. 473; Hawcroft 
(1988) no. 112

Thirty years after his father, the drawing master Alexander Cozens (1717–1786), 
had visited Italy, John Robert Cozens set out on his first tour with the wealthy 
classical scholar, Richard Payne Knight (1751–1824). The men made a brief tour 
of the Alps, and arrived in Rome in November 1776. Cozens was to remain in 
Rome until 8 April 1779, exploring the city and the surrounding Campagna, 
working up his Swiss sketches for Payne Knight, and also making large 
watercolours of Sicily based on sketches by Charles Gore and Philipp Hackert. 
During this period Cozens gradually abandoned the tightly drawn style of his 
earliest work, with very limited monochrome washes, in favour of more brightly 
coloured and atmospheric views. Most remarkable are his darkly romantic 
watercolours of craggy Swiss mountains and waterfalls, and of caverns in the 
Campagna.

After three years living in Bath, where he worked for, among others, his 
father’s pupil and friend William Beckford (1759–1844), Cozens set off on his 
second visit to Italy in May 1782. He travelled as one of Beckford’s large retinue, 
journeying through the Tyrol to Padua, Venice, and Rome, before arriving at 
Sir William Hamilton’s villa at Naples in early July. On the way he began the 
first of seven sketchbooks which eventually covered much of the Italian tour, 
with notable gaps.1 Beckford left Naples in September, but Cozens stayed until 
December. He made sketches of subjects in the city and along the coast, though 
Hamilton told Beckford that he was ‘indolent’.2 

This watercolour represents one of the few scenes painted by Cozens in 
Naples for which there is no related drawing in his sketchbooks. The view 
was taken from the entrance to the Mola, close to the Castel Nuovo, with the 
smoking peak of Vesuvius visible on the left. The old harbour was a centre of 
great social activity, and a favourite place for a stroll after dinner. Cozens has 
used its angular shape, with the lighthouse in the corner, to provide a strong 
foreground, animated with groups of soldiers, nuns, and even a running dog. In 
the harbour itself are several ships, their masts and booms carefully delineated. 
Above all, however, this watercolour is remarkable for its brooding atmosphere: 
the south wind blows across the bay and a storm whips up the sea on the right, 
while clouds cast shadows over the whole panorama. CH

1. Now in the Whitworth Art Gallery, Manchester.
2. Quoted in Hawcroft (1988) p. 80.




24

John Robert Cozens 1752–1797

Villa Madama, near Rome, 1782–3

Watercolour and bodycolour on paper
26.7 x 36.8 cm
Lent from a private collection
LI2224.1

Literature: Bell and Girtin (1934–5) 
no. 362

After nearly five months in Naples and the surrounding area (see cat. 23), 
Cozens travelled back to Rome, alone, in December 1782. His movements are 
not documented until 15 September 1783, and it is generally assumed that he 
remained in Rome, working on a series of watercolours for his patron, William 
Beckford. On their outward journey, Beckford and Cozens had stopped at 
Venice so ‘that Cozens may sketch some of my favourite isles with their morisco 
Towers and waving cypresses’, and there is no doubt that, to some extent, 
Beckford dictated the subjects that Cozens should paint.1 However, since no 
sketches for many of the Roman subjects survive, and Beckford had long since 
left Italy, it has been suggested that these watercolours were made direct from 
nature while Cozens was unaccompanied in 1783. He would no doubt have 
learnt this practice, which was unusual among English artists, from his German 
and French contemporaries, such as Jacob Phillip Hackert (1737–1807), who 
were in Rome at the same time. On the other hand, it is also possible that a batch 
of sketchbooks is missing. Moreover, whereas Beckford had a particular interest 
in architecture and antiquities, his protégé did not. The choice of subjects 
would therefore explain why so many of these watercolours show the gardens 
of famous monuments, rather than the monuments themselves. The villas 
of suburban Rome – Ludovisi, Mattei, Negroni, Lante, Barberini, Borghese 
– and those in the vicinity, such as the Villa Mondragone at Frascati, are all 
subordinate 
to the vegetation of the gardens, portrayed in dramatic effects of 
light and weather.

This majestic watercolour, which has not been exhibited since 1923, is one 
of the most romantic of all the series. The Villa Madama, on the Monte Mario 
to the north-west of Rome, was initially designed by Raphael, and became a 
favourite spot from which to enjoy panoramic views over the city. Cozens shows 
the Villa perched on the hillside, with dense woods behind it, and cypresses 
standing guard to the side. The landscape is dark and stormy, save for a dramatic 
patch of clear sky; a second, in the distance, is brilliantly reflected in the waters 
of the Tiber below. On the right, two women and a child hurry past to avoid the 
approaching storm. It is such emotionally charged works that caused Constable 
to describe Cozens as ‘the greatest genius that ever touched landscape’.2

Cozens produced 94 finished watercolours for Beckford, who sold them in 
1805, after which they became widely dispersed. The Villa Madama, near Rome 
was described in the sale catalogue as a ‘capital drawing embellished with 
an elegant 
group of figures’.3 It later belonged to the greatest of all English 
collectors 
of drawings, the portrait painter, Sir Thomas Lawrence. CH

1. Quoted in Bell and Girtin (1934–5) p. 17.
2. Hawcroft (1971) p. 10.
3. Christie’s, 10 April 1805, lot 85.




25

Francis Towne 1739/40–1816

A View of the Cascade in the Groves at Ambleside, 10 August 1786

Pen and brown ink and watercolour 
on paper
37.7 x 26.5 cm
Signed and dated: F. Towne / delt. 1786
Inscribed on the back of the artist’s mount: 
A View from the Cascade in the Groves at 
Ambleside, the Head of the Lake of Windermere 
drawn on the spot by Francis Towne August 10th 
1786 / NB The paper this is drawn on I brought 
myself from Rome 
Presented by the Misses Merivale, 1922
WA1922.8

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 1823; 
Wilcox (1997) no. 57

Towne is the most eccentric and enigmatic figure in the so-called ‘Golden Age’ 
of the English watercolour. Trained in London as a coach painter, he settled in 
Exeter c. 1764, swiftly establishing himself as the leading drawing master in this 
prosperous provincial centre. He earned nearly £1000 a year and therefore had 
no need to sell his pictures, though he continued to exhibit in London. Towne 
is now remembered for his remarkable studies made on the spot, in which 
outlines are as important as subtlety of colouring. His practice was to begin 
a drawing in graphite or pen, then apply watercolour, finally reworking the 
drawing in pen and ink. The work would be signed on the front, and mounted. 
He generally made an inscription on the back of the drawing, which would be 
transferred to the back of the mount. These elaborate watercolours were not 
originally intended for exhibition, but as private studies for the development of 
oil paintings.

Known for his diffidence and modesty, Towne was not adventurous in his 
subject matter. He made a short tour of Wales in 1777, and an extended expedition 
to Rome and Naples, returning over the Alps, in 1780–1. At the suggestion 
of two of his Exeter friends, James White and John Merivale, he accompanied 
them to the Lake District in August 1786, spending just over a fortnight based 
at Ambleside, at the northern end of Lake Windermere. Towne explored the 
area thoroughly, armed with two sketchbooks and about 15 larger sheets of 
paper. He was especially fascinated by the secluded falls of Stock Gill, just above 
Ambleside, of which he made three elaborate drawings.1 The present sheet 
is the most accomplished, indeed widely acknowledged as one of the artist’s 
masterpieces. The first of the companion drawings is similar in composition, 
taken from a point slightly nearer the waterfall; the second is entirely different, 
featuring a distant view including blue sky and a variety of green foliage. In the 
Ashmolean drawing, the white of the water offers a brilliant contrast with the 
shaded rocky hillside, its almost geometric shape answered by the exuberant 
penwork in the foreground. Overhead, the sun shines brightly through the 
canopy of trees, creating subtle patterns in the leaves above. CH

1. Tate, and private collection; Wilcox (1997) nos. 58–9.




26

George Augustus Wallis 1761–1847

The Ruins of Selinunte, c. 1792

Watercolour and bodycolour with pen and 
brown ink over an etched outline on paper 
53.8 x 75.5 cm
Presented by Revd S. H. Scott, 1937
WA1937.114

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 1856; 
Bailey (1975–6) fig. 17

The Scottish painter George Wallis is barely known today, yet he once enjoyed 
a European-wide reputation. The collector William Young Ottley, who owned 
several of his paintings, made bold claims for his talents in landscape, which 
united ‘the wildness of Salvator Rosa with the classic chastity of Nicolo Poussin’.1 
Shortly after travelling to Italy in 1788, funded by the Earl of Warwick, Wallis 
was taken to Sicily in 1792 as the protégé of Thomas Hope (1769–1831). Shortly 
afterwards, he returned to the island in the company of Lord Berwick. Settling 
in Rome in 1794, he acted primarily as a picture-dealer for British travellers. 
His landscapes were praised by Madame de Staël and Goethe, but he seems to 
have been a rather unreliable character according to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, 
who lodged with him in Rome. Whatever his personal failings, this watercolour 
certainly reflects Ottley’s judgment regarding the ‘grandeur of his conceptions’.2 

Selinunte, on the south-west coast of Sicily, boasts some of the most 
impressive 
remains of the ancient Greek world. Selinus, the most westerly 
colony of Magna Graecia, was established in 628 bc, but what Hannibal did 
not destroy in 409 bc was further shaken by earthquakes, leaving a vast ruined 
temple complex. The confused heaps of fallen masonry lie on a site overlooking 
the Mediterranean, making this a scene ripe for Romantic musings. Here we see 
the colossal wreckage of shattered columns from the Temple of Apollo.

Wallis has added several visiting shepherds to give a sense of scale and to 
enliven the scene, lending it a timeless, Arcadian air. A blue cloak draws the 
viewer’s attention to two men resting at the centre, while the diagonals of the 
fallen pillars and an animated figure to the left lead the eye towards a man in the 
middle distance, who seems to be carving his initials into a column. The work 
is dominated by muted blues, greens, and browns, with considerable penwork 
hatching and outlining in the vegetation and architecture. The watercolour is 
added over a faintly printed etching, which also appears in reverse on the back of 
the sheet. The Raphaelesque figure with his hand raised does not feature in this 
print, which may explain why he appears rather overworked. 

Apart from a brief return to London c. 1806, Wallis spent most of his life 
abroad – in Rome, Spain (where he acquired Velázquez’s ‘Rokeby’ Venus, now in 
the National Gallery, London), Heidelberg, and finally Florence. His grandiose 
tomb in the Protestant cemetery there, erected by his appropriately named son 
Trajan, is adorned with a portrait medallion and an inscription recording his 
‘genius and science in the art of painting’.3 CP 

1. Ottley sale catalogue of 1814, quoted in Paley 
(2008) p. 46.
2. Paley (2008) p. 46; see also Bailey (1975–6) 
pp. 34–57. 
3. http://www.florin.ms/sculptors.html, 
accessed 7 January 2015.




27

Thomas Girtin 1775–1802 

Crowland Abbey, Lincolnshire, c. 1793

Watercolour over indications in graphite 
on paper
33.2 x 30 cm
Signed: Girtin
Bequeathed by Professor and Mrs Francis 
Pierrepont Barnard, 1934
WA1934.126.1

Literature: Girtin and Loshak (1954) 
no. 50; Brown (1982) no. 708

Among the antiquaries surveying the historical remains of the British Isles in 
the late eighteenth century, none was more enthusiastic than James Moore 
(1762–1799). A wealthy linen draper from Southwark, he made a series of tours 
which resulted in such publications as the unillustrated List of the Abbies, Priories 
and other Religious Houses, Castles etc in England and Wales (1786) and Monastic 
Remains and Ancient Castles in England and Wales, Drawn on the Spot by James 
Moore (1791–3), with plates finished and engraved by Jacob Schnebbelie, official 
draughtsman to the Society of Antiquaries. 

Following Schnebbelie’s death in 1792, Moore turned to artists such as 
Edward Dayes to work up his sketches into watercolours suitable for engraving. 
Girtin had been apprenticed to Dayes in 1789, and was commissioned by Moore 
to make independent watercolours from his sketches. In 1792 or 1793, he began 
work on a series of about 60 watercolours based on sketches made throughout 
mainland Britain, for which he was apparently paid six shillings a day. Apart 
from providing a regular income, this work enabled Girtin to become familiar 
with Gothic architecture and introduced him to a wide circle of antiquaries. 
There is no suggestion that he regarded it as demeaning hack work. Indeed, his 
first exhibit at the Royal Academy, in 1794, was a large View of Ely Minster based 
on a sketch by Moore.1 

Crowland Abbey was based on two of Moore’s sketches, and probably made in 
1793, although Girtin accompanied Moore on a tour of the Midlands in 1794 
which took in Lincolnshire. The work was engraved in 1797 and published in 
Bartholomew Howlett’s Selection of Views in the County of Lincoln in 1805. Until 
the Dissolution of the Monasteries, the abbey was one of the richest Benedictine 
foundations in England, largely rebuilt in the thirteenth century. Girtin’s 
watercolour is not a mere dry record of this noble ruin, but a virtuoso evocation 
of its architecture, its stones painted in the most subtle gradations of grey, blue, 
and brown, against an atmospheric sky. CH 

1. Ashmolean Museum, WA1916.1; Girtin and 
Loshak (1954) no. 65; Brown (1982) no. 714.



Fig. 32 | Bartholomew Howlett (1767–1827) after 
Thomas Girtin (1775–1802), Croyland Abbey, 
1797. Engraving. Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, 
WA1934.126.2




28

Thomas Girtin 1775–1802

Dunottar Castle in a Thunderstorm, c. 1794

Watercolour over indications in graphite 
on paper
16.5 x 22.5 cm
Bequeathed by Mrs Francis Pierrepont 
Barnard, 1934
WA1934.118 

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 717; Girtin 
and Loshak (1954) no. 72; Smith (2002) 
no. 36

James Moore (see cat. 27) made an extensive tour of Scotland in 1792, with 
the intention of recording the country’s most notable antiquities for future 
publication. 
He set out from York on 13 August, reached Kelso in the Borders 
on 20 August and spent some days in Edinburgh. From there he moved west, 
turned north towards Perth, and then travelled up the east coast to Aberdeen, 
where he arrived on 5 September. Moore’s tour continued west to Inverness, 
then down the Great Glen to Dunstaffnage, before going across to Inveraray, 
and finally through Glasgow to Carlisle and the Lake District. The only 
published 
result of this tour was the Twenty-Five Views in the Southern Part of 
Scotland, which included monuments in the Lowlands and as far north as 
Dunkeld. The majority of views were engraved after watercolours by Edward 
Dayes. He also worked up a number of Moore’s sketches, presumably intended 
to be engraved for a companion volume dealing with the northern part 
of Scotland.1

This small watercolour has until recently been called Dunstanburgh Castle, 
with the building on the clifftop identified as the Lilburn Tower. However, 
Greg Smith has conclusively shown that the subject is Dunottar Castle, near 
Stonehaven, based on James Moore’s sketch in pencil and blue and grey wash 
dated 5 September 1792.2 It was thus one of the series on which Girtin’s master, 
Dayes, worked in 1792, though Girtin’s own involvement with Moore dates 
from 1793–4. The site is one of particular importance in Scottish history: it was 
at Dunottar that William Keith, Earl Marischal, the hereditary keeper of the 
Honours of Scotland, the crown and other regalia, hid them from Cromwell’s 
armies after the coronation of Charles II at Scone on 1 January 1651. During a 
siege of the castle later in the year, the Honours were smuggled out and hidden 
in a nearby church, before being returned to Edinburgh at the Restoration 
in 1660. 

Girtin must have been aware of the historical significance of Dunottar, and 
has completely transformed Moore’s sketch to create an elemental drama of 
thunder and lightning, wind and rain, with huge waves crashing against the 
coast. The castle itself is seen from the south, a diminutive tower house standing 
on top of the cliff. It is almost overwhelmed by nature – there is nothing 
antiquarian 
about this scene. The low viewpoint, in which the ostensible subject 
is framed by billowing rocks, and the restricted palette make this small watercolour 
one of the artist’s most sublime. It was not engraved. CH

1. Brown (1982) nos. 491–507.
2. Yale Center for British Art; repr. Smith (2002) 
p. 58.




29

Thomas Girtin 1775–1802

The Falls of the Ogwen, North Wales, c. 1799–1800

Watercolour touched with reed pen over 
indications in graphite on paper
53.6 x 44.5 cm
Signed: Girtin
Presented by A. E. Anderson in memory 
of his brother, Frank Anderson, through 
The Art Fund, 1931
WA1931.11

Literature: Girtin and Loshak (1954) 
no. 432ii; Brown (1982) no. 745; Smith 
(2002), no. 121 

After a period of about two years making copies of antiquarian subjects for 
James Moore, Girtin embarked on his first sketching tour in 1794. His trips 
to the West Country in 1797 and to Wales in 1798 liberated him from close 
architectural views, and he began to produce the panoramic landscapes that 
dominated his final years. They were generally painted on coarse, absorbent, 
cartridge paper, which allowed him to apply his colours very wet, and encouraged 
spontaneity and immediacy of effect. He was thus able to combine breadth 
of handling with great delicacy. 

After his death in 1802, Girtin’s great friend and rival, J. M. W. Turner, is 
supposed to have said that ‘If Tom Girtin had lived, I should have starved’. 
The remark is probably apocryphal, but recognises that, at that date, Girtin 
was much the more advanced artist, and preferred by some patrons. So, Lady 
Sutherland and Edward Lascelles, heir to the Harewood estate in Yorkshire, 
were reported by Joseph Farington to have been ‘disposed to set up Girtin 
against Turner who they say effects his purposes by industry – the former more 
genius – Turner finishes too much’.1 

Girtin visited Harewood several times between 1796 and 1801, so frequently 
that it was said that his room was always kept in readiness. Lascelles bought 
nearly 20 works from Girtin, nearly twice as many as from Turner, and also 
employed him as a drawing master. Most of his commissions were of Yorkshire 
subjects, including views of the house and park at Harewood, but Lascelles also 
owned two large watercolours of Welsh subjects. One, a monumental View near 
Beddgelert, North Wales, was shown at the Royal Academy in 1799, to unanimous 
praise.2 It was universally recognised as marking an important step in the 
development of the Romantic watercolour. 

The other Welsh view was The Falls of the Ogwen, North Wales. It forms a highly 
appropriate contrast with the panoramic sweep of its companion, in its upright 
format and low, relatively close viewpoint. It is among Girtin’s most powerful 
expressions of the sublime; one can almost hear the roar of the falls as they 
cascade down the steep gully. A pair of diminutive sheep gaze in amazement 
from a vantage point high above, while on the slope below, their companions are 
tended by a shepherd. CH 

1. Quoted in Hill (1999) pp. 19–20.
2. Girtin and Loshak (1954) no. 266ii; Smith 
(2002) no. 116.




30

Edward Dayes 1763–1804

Magdalen College and Bridge, Oxford, from the River, 1794

Watercolour over indications in graphite 
on paper
30 x 44.6 cm
Signed and dated: Edwd. Dayes / 1794
Deposited by the Delegates of the Oxford 
University Press, 1850
WA1850.46

Literature: Petter (1974) pp. 80–1; 
Brown (1982) no. 510; Smith (2002) no. 4 

The Oxford Almanack has been produced annually since 1674 as the official 
calendar 
of the University of Oxford. The earliest examples were grand 
allegorical 
engravings on the lines of Continental thesis prints. Later they 
included views of individual colleges or university buildings with portraits of 
founders or benefactors, but it was not until the 1760s that they took their 
most characteristic, and current, form. The Oxford violinist and drawing 
master John ‘Baptist’ Malchair (1730–1812) provided two landscapes which 
were reproduced 
as the headpieces in 1767 and 1768. Since then the Oxford 
Almanacks have included a picturesque view at the top of the sheet, and the 
calendar, with lists of University officials, beneath. Malchair was followed by 
Edward and Michael ‘Angelo’ Rooker, who made a long series from 1769 to 
1788, and a few by local artists. In 1794–5 Edward Dayes was commissioned 
to make six views, for which he was paid 40 guineas. Apart from the accounts, 
there is no evidence as to how the Delegates of the Clarendon (later University) 
Press chose the artists for the Almanacks.

Although he came to specialise in watercolours of topographical and 
architectural 
subjects, Dayes had studied with a portrait painter and at the 
Royal Academy Schools; he always maintained that landscape painters should 
have a thorough training in drawing the human figure. By the early 1790s he 
had established his reputation as a painter of topographical watercolours, and 
was employed by the antiquary James Moore, to work up his sketches of views 
in Scotland. 

Dayes’s watercolours for the Oxford Almanack were all based on pencil 
sketches made on a visit in July 1794. This view of Magdalen College and Bridge 
was reproduced as the Oxford Almanack for 1797. It shows the banks of the River 
Cherwell in front of Magdalen Bridge, the most splendid and formal of all the 
bridges in Oxford, begun as a consequence of the Mileways Act of 1771 but not 
completed until 1790. Beyond is the distinctive late Gothic form of Magdalen 
Tower, one of the most famous landmarks in Oxford, and the first notable 
building for travellers approaching the city from the east. On the horizon are 
the spire of the University Church of St Mary the Virgin and the dome of the 
Radcliffe Camera, while an elegant group of cows gives the scene an essentially 
bucolic quality. In the foreground a man in mortarboard and gown converses 
with two fishermen who, from their dress, might be wealthy undergraduates, 
attended by a dog. CH



31

Edward Dayes 1763–1804

Durham Cathedral seen through an Arch of Ralph Flambard’s Bridge, 1797

Watercolour over indications in graphite 
on paper
10.7 x 16.2 cm
Verso inscribed: Durham Cathedral seen through 
an arch of the Old Bridge with the Prebends or 
New Bridge in the Distance
Presented in memory of Percy G. F. Allen, 
Assistant Keeper in the Ashmolean 
Museum (1914–5), 1916
WA1916.11

Literature: Brown (1982) no. 515

Durham Cathedral and Castle both occupy a dominant position high above a 
bend in the River Wear. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries they were 
depicted in numerous antiquarian engravings, but it was not until the 1780s that 
they attracted the attention of artists in search of the Picturesque. Among the 
first of these was Thomas Hearne (1744–1817), who made lively watercolours 
of the monuments and bridges of Durham in the 1780s.1 He was followed by 
Edward Dayes, whose views influenced those of his pupil, Thomas Girtin, and 
his rival, J. M. W. Turner. Dayes seems to have visited Durham in the early 
1790s, when he made a sketch of the cathedral with the western tower swathed 
in scaffolding. He later worked this up into a finished watercolour, published 
in the Copper Plate Magazine on 1 February 1796.2 Girtin made a copy of Dayes’s 
watercolour in 1795, and a sketch of the same view on his own tour to Durham 
in 1796; the latter formed the basis for two further watercolours by Girtin, one 
of which is dated 1799.3 They all show the cathedral and castle looming high 
over the Prebends’ Bridge. Less sublime, but no less conventional, was Turner’s 
watercolour based on sketches from his tour of the north of England in 1797.4

For this later watercolour, Dayes adopted a completely original viewpoint: 
the cathedral is seen through an arch of the Framwellgate Bridge. One of 
three bridges crossing the Wear, this was originally built by Ranulf Flambard, 
Bishop of Durham, in 1120, shortly after he had ordered the completion of 
the cathedral itself. Flambard’s bridge was swept away in a flood in 1400, and 
reconstructed 
according to the present design under Bishop Langley. Dayes 
shows the cathedral’s western tower still covered in scaffolding, minutely 
depicted in pencil, while the bridge is painted in much broader, flatter areas of 
dark watercolour. The sun sets behind, with a lone figure on the bridge itself, 
while two men in a boat hurry home as a fresh wind whips up the water. The 
composition is indebted to Canaletto’s extraordinary painting of The City of 
London seen through an Arch of Westminster Bridge, a work made popular by Richard 
Parr’s engraving, published in 1747.5

As well as the watercolours he commissioned after his own copies, James 
Moore bought independent watercolours of antiquarian subjects from his 
artists. 
He acquired one of Turner’s most poetic views of Tintern Abbey, 
probably 
after it was shown at the Royal Academy in 1795.6 Moore also 
purchased 
this dreamily evocative view of Durham by Dayes, for which he paid 
one guinea on 21 February 1798. CH

1. See for example, Brown (1982) no. 836.
2. The watercolour was sold at Christie’s 
17 November 2005, lot 47.
3. Smith (2002) nos. 52–5. 
4. Wilton (1979) no. 249.
5. 1747; collection of the Duke of 
Northumberland; Beddington (2006) no. 24.
6. Wilton (1979) no. 58.




32

Joseph Mallord William Turner 1775–1851

Inside View of the Hall of Christ Church, Oxford, 1803–4

Watercolour over graphite on paper,
with some scratching out
32.9 x 44.8 cm
Deposited by the Delegates of the Oxford 
University Press, 1850
WA1850.55

Literature: Herrmann (1968) no. 7; 
Petter (1974) pp. 83–4; Wilton (1979) 
no. 301; Harrison (2000) pp. 69–71

One of Turner’s most prestigious early commissions was for a pair of 
watercolours, 
to be reproduced as the headpiece for the Oxford Almanack in 
1797–8. He was paid 20 guineas for both, the same rate as his friend Edward 
Dayes, who may have recommended his services to the Delegates of the Press. 
Turner was, in any case, a familiar figure in Oxford – he had relations at 
Suningwell, to the south of the city – and may have known at least one of the 
Delegates personally, Dr Cyril Jackson. He was also an obvious choice as artist, 
having been trained as an architectural draughtsman with Thomas Malton, 
who later produced a series of rather dry aquatint views of the colleges. For his 
first watercolours, and no doubt with an eye to receiving further commissions, 
Turner produced two contrasting compositions, a distant view of Christ Church 
from the Meadows (fig.33), and a strongly architectural view of the chapel and hall 
of Oriel College (reproduced in 1799 and 1801 respectively). On the strength of 
these watercolours, Turner was given a further commission for another watercolour 
in 1801 and seven more in 1804.

The hall at Christ Church is the most splendid of any Oxford or Cambridge 
college, and the only part of Wolsey’s foundation that still reflects the magnitude 
of his ambitious building scheme. It was completed shortly before his downfall 
in 1529, and measures 115 by 40 feet, and 50 feet high. The windows are original, 
including the bold bay window lighting the high table on its dais. The portraits 
hanging against the wainscotting show eminent old members of Christ Church 
surrounding the second founder, Henry VIII; they were at the time considered 
the most important collection in Oxford. The only surviving study for any of 
the Almanack drawings is a pencil sketch for this watercolour (Tate), which has 
indications of perspective together with measurements and colour notes. It also 
includes details of individual bosses with coats of arms round the walls, shorthand 
indications of the different styles of picture frames, and the tables laid for 
dinner. The emphatic scratching out of the picture frames and roof bosses is 
unusual, and may have been done to assist the engraver. However, the Delegates 
were not satisfied and in May 1806 they ordered Hugh O’Neill to ‘correct’ some 
parts of Turner’s watercolour. Nevertheless, the published Almanack for 1807 
does correspond in most respects to Turner’s original. CH


Fig. 33 | James Basire (1730–1802) after J. M. W. 
Turner (1775–1851), South View of Christ Church, 
& c., from the Meadows: Oxford Almanack for 
1799. Engraving. Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, 
WA.L.55.29




33

John Sell Cotman 1782–1842

A Ruined House, c. 1807–10

Watercolour over graphite on paper
32.7 x 26.1 cm
Presented by Sir Michael Sadler in memory 
of Lady Sadler, through The Art Fund, 1931
WA1931.8

Literature: Kitson (1937) p. 112

The Norwich Society of Artists was founded in 1803, while Cotman was 
attempting to establish his career in London. Initially employed by the 
publisher 
Rudolph Ackermann, Cotman was also involved in both Dr Thomas 
Monro’s Academy and the Sketching Society formed by Girtin. Having 
successfully 
exhibited at the Royal Academy, he failed to gain membership of 
the Society of Painters in Watercolours and returned to his native Norwich in 
1806. Persistently ambitious, he quickly secured his place beside John Crome as 
a leading member of the city’s Society of Artists, being elected Vice President in 
1810 and as President the following year.

Before he embarked on the series of antiquarian etching projects that 
dominated 
his work from 1810 to 1822 Cotman produced a number of oil 
paintings. 
This watercolour is a study for a work now in the Yale Center for 
British Art.1 Ruins are a recurrent motif in Cotman’s work, from dramatic 
castles 
and abbeys to modest examples of vernacular architecture. Here, 
however, the decaying house is treated in restrained terms rather than in a 
picturesque fashion focusing on elaborate textural minutiae. Cotman’s evident 
delight in abstract pattern-making is emphasised by the small graphite plan 
of the subject in the lower left corner, and enhanced by careful understated 
details, such as the separate lateral strokes for the exposed bricks echoing the 
disintegrating roof slats. Delicately handled untinted areas give the impression 
of brilliant sunshine, off-set by the dense darkness of the building’s interior. The 
close, low viewpoint lends the dilapidated dwelling a bold monumentality, an 
effect that is slightly reduced in the finished painting. 

Cotman’s aspirations as an oil painter were largely frustrated by his duties 
as a drawing master mainly in Norfolk, but from 1834 as a master at King’s 
College, London, where among his pupils was the young Dante Gabriel 
Rossetti. The full recognition of Cotman’s achievement, particularly as a 
watercolourist, would come only in the twentieth century. He was then lauded 
by artists such as Paul Nash, Eric Ravilious, and John Piper in their search for 
a recognisably British tradition that could be reconciled with developments in 
modern European painting. Cotman was increasingly co-opted to represent 
this synthesis, with Laurence Binyon even claiming in his survey English Water-
colours (1933) that ‘there was no need to invoke Cézanne, for Cotman was 
there to show the way’.2 KW

1. Possibly one of two paintings exhibited with 
the Norwich Society of Artists in 1809 under the 
title An Old House, Norwich.
2. Binyon (1933) p. 191.



Fig. 34 | John Sell Cotman (1782–1842), Ruined 
House, c. 1807–10. Oil on millboard, mounted on 
panel. Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon 
Collection, B1975.1.2




34

John Sell Cotman 1782–1842

The Tower of West Walton Church, Norfolk, c. 1812

Watercolour over graphite on paper
34.4 x 25 cm
Inscribed: 5
Presented by A. E. Anderson through 
The Art Fund, 1923
WA1923.4

Cotman was still at work on his Miscellaneous Etchings (1811), dominated by sites 
encountered during his travels in Yorkshire between 1803–5, when he wrote to 
Dawson Turner on 2 February 1811 seeking his advice on his proposed project 
to etch ‘all Ornamented Antiquities in Norfolk’.1 Turner, a noted local banker, 
botanist, and antiquary, first met Cotman in 1804 and became a committed, if 
perhaps restrictive, patron. Cotman again sought Turner’s advice, regarding the 
itinerary for his autumn sketching tour of Norfolk, on 25 August, the day after 
the conclusion of the 1811 Norwich Society of Artists exhibition. 

Mid-September found the artist in the north-west of the county. During this 
time he made studies of West Walton Church, a fine example of Early English 
Gothic architecture, upon which the present watercolour is based. This served 
in turn for an etching, originally published in 1814 and later in A Series of Etchings 
Illustrative of the Architectural Antiquities of Norfolk (1818).

An advertisement in the Norwich Chronicle signalled Cotman’s dual intentions 
for his forthcoming etchings: ‘Although it will be the principal object of the 
Author to exhibit faithfully the Styles of the various Structures, yet he will not 
be inattentive to the Selection of the most favourable points of view; being 
persuaded it will be the wish of his subscribers to see architectural fidelity 
combined with picturesque effect.’2 The etching is notably more picturesque in 
appearance than the watercolour, with the rough grass and tottering gate in the 
foreground. In fact, some of these details appear in the graphite underdrawing 
of the watercolour, but are obscured by the deep shadow falling across the 
base of the tower. Rather than being a topographical observation, this device, 
favoured by the formidable eighteenth-century draughtsman Giovanni Battista 
Piranesi, enhances the drama of the composition. Cotman held Piranesi’s work 
in high esteem, and early in 1812 he encouraged Dawson Turner to purchase the 
Italian’s complete etchings, being unable to afford them himself. 

After some prevarication, Cotman moved to Yarmouth in April 1812 
under Turner’s patronage, for £200 per year, succeeding John Crome as the 
family’s drawing master. Turner’s own antiquarian interests, including his 
Grangerisation of an edition of Blomefield’s History of Norfolk (1805–10), 
dominated 
Cotman’s work for the next decade – in part accounting for his 
delay in completing the 60 etchings for Antiquities of Norfolk. Despite lacking 
a chronological 
scheme or touring narrative the etchings were sufficiently 
well received to secure Cotman a commission for Longman’s Excursions as 
the main contributor of illustrations for the volumes on Norfolk and Suffolk 
(1818–9). KW

1. Moore (1982) p. 60.
2. Ibid.



Fig. 35 | John Sell Cotman (1782–1842), Tower 
of West Walton Church, Norfolk, 1814, plate 
XXXIV from A Series of Etchings Illustrative of the 
Architectural Antiquities of Norfolk, 1818. Etching. 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, WA1932.85




35

David Cox 1783–1859

Fishermen on the Thames looking towards Westminster and Lambeth, 1823

Watercolour over graphite on paper
25 x 36.2 cm
Signed and dated: Cox 1823
Lent from a private collection
LI2224.2

Born in Birmingham, Cox moved to London in 1804 and initially specialised 
in watercolour, first exhibiting at the Royal Academy in 1805. He quickly 
became a stalwart of the Society of Painters in Watercolours, which he joined 
in 1812, having 
earlier shown at the rival Associated Artists in Watercolours. 
Between 1813 and 1819 he published a series of drawing manuals which enjoyed 
great success among amateurs and aspiring professionals, the most notable 
being his Treatise on Landscape Painting and Effect in Water Colours (1813–4). 
Like many of his contemporaries Cox made several tours of Wales, providing 
illustrations 
to Thomas Roscoe’s Wanderings and Excursions in North Wales (1836) 
and the companion 
volume on South Wales (1837); and of the Midlands, the Lake 
District, the north of England, and the Low Countries (1826) and France (1829, 
1832). As his style developed, he accepted the challenge of oil painting in the 
late 1830s.

Although Cox lived in Hereford from 1814 until 1827, teaching privately and 
at the local grammar school, he remained closely in touch with the Watercolour 
Society in London. This charming view is an outstandingly fresh example of 
the kind of work he exhibited in the 1820s. He had shown views of the Thames 
at his earliest exhibitions with the Associated Artists, but they later became 
something of a speciality, and he produced a particular concentration in 1823 
and 1824. This watercolour may be the Fishing Boat on the Thames exhibited 
in 1823. In part, these must have been painted in the hope of sales. Since the 
Middle Ages the Thames has been associated with English national pride, and 
after the victory of Waterloo collectors were eager to reaffirm the significance of 
this symbol. More importantly, however, the low horizon and wide panorama 
perfectly suited Cox’s talent. Here, two colourfully dressed men sit in a boat, 
one rowing and the other looking after a fishing net. On the horizon can be seen 
the massive form of Westminster Abbey and the arches of the old bridge, while 
the ghost-like dome of St Paul’s Cathedral looms in the far distance. There is a 
great deal of activity on the banks, a reminder of the river’s economic as well as 
symbolic importance. CH



36

Samuel Prout 1783–1852

A View in Strasbourg, 1822

Watercolour and pen and ink on paper
62.1 x 47.7 cm
Inscribed: HANDLUNG / VON / S. PROUT / 
Commerce de Jean Dichl / no. 65
Presented by William Vautier Paterson, 
through The Art Fund, 1943
WA1943.4.26

Literature: Wilton and Lyles (1993) 
no. 233

Despite persistent ill health, Prout pursued a successful career as a draughtsman 
and watercolourist. The author of several manuals on drawing and an influential 
teacher, he counted members of the aristocracy, the artist J. D. Harding and 
John Ruskin among his pupils, with the latter becoming his most committed 
advocate. Prout was a contributor to numerous publications of picturesque 
scenery, as well as a pioneering exponent of lithography. 

Appointed as Painter in Ordinary in Water-Colours to Queen Victoria in 
1837, Prout’s reputation rested on his work of the 1820s. During this decade he 
made several trips to the Continent, which provided him with novel motifs in 
astute competition with the picturesque views of the British Isles that by this 
date had become somewhat hackneyed. ‘We had begun to tire,’ William Henry 
Pyne remarked ‘of the endless repetitions of Tintern Abbey from within, and 
Tintern Abbey from without, and the same by moonlight, and twilight, and 
every other light in which taste and talent could compose variations to the worn-
out theme.’1

Prout first visited Strasbourg from 12 to 19 September 1821 as part of 
an extensive trip down the Rhine. His itinerary, recorded in his surviving 
Goldsmith’s Almanack, shows that Strasbourg, along with Cologne, was the 
only city in which he remained for more than two days. This view shows the 
Rue Mercière looking towards the west front of Strasbourg Cathedral. The 
composition 
allows the cathedral to appear gracefully in the background 
while affording Prout the opportunity to delineate abundant local detail in the 
foreground, 
worked up in characteristic broken lines with a reed pen and brown 
ink. Shadows placed across the buildings create a receding rhythm of light and 
dark, culminating in the ethereal grey tones of the magnificent north tower. 
Ruskin’s admiration for Prout was based in part upon his accurate record of 
dilapidated structures that would subsequently be destroyed, such as the water 
fountain in the foreground. Here, however, the artist ignores the distinctive 
pink hue of the Vosges sandstone with which the cathedral was renovated 
following a devastating fire in 1176. 

Exhibited at the Old Water-Colour Society in 1822, along with three other 
views of Strasbourg, this watercolour probably fetched 35 guineas, the highest 
price for a work by Prout recorded on that occasion. It did not feature in his 
Illustrations of the Rhine (1824), but, slightly adapted, served as the basis of a lithograph 
for Facsimiles of Sketches made in Flanders and Germany, published by 
the artist in 1833. It was the purchase of this volume by Ruskin’s father that 
inspired the first of his family’s Continental tours. KW

1. Somerset House Gazette, quoted in Lockett (1985) p. 65.



Fig. 36 | Samuel Prout (1783–1852), The Rue 
Mercière and west front of Strasbourg Cathedral, 
published in Facsimiles of Sketches made in Flanders 
and Germany, 1833. Lithograph on Chine collé. 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, WA.RS.ED.059




37

George Chinnery 1774–1852

Ruins in Bengal, 1820–5

Pen and grey ink and watercolour and 
bodycolour over graphite, on off-white
wove paper, on buff-coloured inlay with
red framing line
15.2 x 19.9 cm
Signed and dated on the verso: Geo Chinnery. 
F. / Macao China 1826.
Presented by Professor Luke Herrmann 
from the collection of Sir Bruce Ingram, 
through The Art Fund, 2002
WA2002.21

A colourful character, known as a great raconteur and as ‘one of the ugliest men 
in existence’, Chinnery trained at the Royal Academy Schools in the early 1790s. 
He won success as a painter in Ireland from 1796, before following his brother 
John, an employee of the East India Company, to Madras in 1802. Chinnery 
moved on to Calcutta in 1812, where he established himself as a portrait painter, 
though he preferred landscape ‘a thousand times better’.1

Despite the inscription on the verso locating the scene to Macau, this 
watercolour 
must have been painted in Bengal. It is related to a number of 
Bengali scenes in which the fallen dome of a Muslim mausoleum lies amid 
crumbling stonework, sometimes accompanied by figures bathing on the 
banks of a river.2 Chinnery left for China in July 1825, in an attempt to escape 
substantial 
debts in Calcutta. 

Rather than depicting a spectacular view of foreign scenery, the scene is 
one of restful contemplation. Towards the left, however, a sharp dash of bright 
red catches the eye, drawing attention to the fallen dome in the shadows. The 
red indicates a small fire from which smoke rises, drifting across the scene. 
Chinnery was particularly fond of using blue-grey smoke to lighten the more 
obscure corners of his compositions, which he preferred to be at least two-thirds 
in shadow – the ‘great Engine of Effect’, as he described it.3 In an album entitled 
‘Scenery in Bengal 1825’, once belonging to Lady Harriet Paget, he inscribed an 
evening landscape drawing: ‘Smoke in air in the dark parts would be beautiful’ 
(fol. 18).4

The Paget album includes about 50 sketches mostly dating to 1821, when 
Chinnery travelled up the Hoogli (Hooghly) river to Serampore to evade his 
creditors. One drawing depicts a riverside village with ruined tombs (fol. 7, 
September 1821), while another shows a Muslim mausoleum beside a banyan 
tree, with a seated figure, goat and cow in the foreground (fol. 5). Chinnery no 
doubt used such carefully observed sketches as reference material from which to 
construct his imaginary compositions. 

Although exotic in its setting, the watercolour is closely related to the 
Picturesque tradition that dominated English art when Chinnery first trained 
in London, notably in the diverse textures of the brick and plaster, the invading 
vegetation and the rickety palmleaf shelter. The precisely laid wash to the 
right of the wall, leaving the finest strip of light beneath a cloud, is balanced 
by a similar 
strip of light on the fallen stonework bottom left, demonstrating 
Chinnery’s masterful handling of the medium. CP

1. Patrick Conner, ‘Chinnery, George (1774–
1852)’, Oxford Dictionary of National Biography 
online edn. (2007) http://www.oxforddnb.com/
view/article/5311, accessed 6 January 2015.
2. See, for example, Sunset, Rhode Island 
School of Design Museum, 73.204.6; and Bengal 
Landscape with the Ruins of a Mosque, Christie’s 
26 September 2007, lot 415, showing a man in the 
same white clothes with a blue sash.
3. Quoted in Conner (1993) p. 138.
4. British Library, WD3385.




38

David Roberts 1796–1864 

The Puerta de Alcalá, Madrid, 1832–3

Watercolour over graphite on brown paper 
26.9 x 38.8 cm
Inscribed: Gate of Alcalá. Madrid
Purchased (Virtue-Tebbs Bequest Fund), 
1963
WA1963.89.72

Balancing precision with facility, this view of the Puerta de Alcalá in Madrid – 
a monumental gateway designed by the neo-classical architect Francesco 
Sabatini in 1778 – exemplifies the art of the Scottish watercolourist David 
Roberts. According to the Redgrave brothers, Roberts was an ‘essentially scenic’ 
artist-topographer whose architectural views conveyed ‘the splendour and 
magnificence 
of his structures, by simplicity … of parts, by breadth of daylight, 
and by enriching 
his subjects with groups of accessories’.1 

Roberts rose from humble beginnings to gain success as a scene-painter – a 
background evident in the speed of his execution and direct appeal to the eye. 
The imposing backdrop of the gate resembles a theatre in itself, with the figures 
spilling out on to the ‘stage’ to enliven the scene. Roberts has used a ruler in 
drawing the architecture, but there is extraordinary freedom in his application 
of paint, which leaves large areas of the paper exposed. Scattered touches of 
colour draw the eye to key points of focus: two dabs of green are placed either 
side of the main arch, for example, with another in the cape of a figure directly 
below the centre. The blue of the sky is picked up in foreground figures to left 
and right of centre, while red notes link the group on the far right to figures 
under each curved arch.

This view was published as a lithograph in Picturesque Sketches in Spain (1837, 
plate XVIII). Here the splashes of colour take on the clear forms of travelling 
farmers with ox-drawn carts, and groups of priests. The gate marked the passage 
of a cañada real (a designated royal route for migrating livestock), so flocks of 
sheep were regularly driven through the Puerta. 

Before Roberts, few artists had travelled to Spain, described by fellow 
artist David Wilkie as ‘the wild unpoached game reserve of Europe’.2 An advertisement 
for Sketches of Spain and Spanish Character (1833–4) by his friend 
J. F. Lewis appears in the back of Roberts’s volume, indicating one painter who 
had preceded him. Otherwise it was largely Wilkie who inspired Roberts to set 
off for Madrid – and perhaps the Murillos and Velázquezs recently acquired by 
Wallis (see cat. 26). 

He arrived in the city in December 1832, braving its piercing winds for 
three weeks before travelling south to Córdoba. Roberts relished the purity of 
Madrid’s fog-free air, as can be seen from the brilliant clarity of this watercolour. 
Returning ‘laden … like the bees with honey’ in the form of a packed portfolio, 
Roberts transformed his studies into paintings for exhibition and illustrations 
for the Landscape Annuals (1835–8).3 His Picturesque Sketches, which sold 1,200 
sets in two months, was frequently reprinted, and brought him considerable 
recognition, as well as praise from Cotman.4 CP

1. Redgrave (1947) p. 406.
2. Quoted in Sim (1984) p. 61.
3. Quoted in Sim (1984) p. 70.
4. Guiterman and Llewellyn (1986) p. 65.



Fig. 37 | David Roberts (1796 –1864), The Puerta de 
Alcalá, Madrid, from Picturesque Sketches in Spain 
taken during the years 1832 and 1833, London, 1837. 
Lithograph © Bodleian Library, University of 
Oxford.




39

John Frederick Lewis 1804–1876

Head of a Girl in a Lace Shawl, 1838

Red and black chalk and Indian ink with 
watercolour and bodycolour on buff board 
37.1 x 26.3 cm
Signed and dated: J. F. Lewis / 1838
Presented by Professor Luke Herrmann 
from the collection of Sir Bruce Ingram, 
through The Art Fund, 2002
WA2002.24

Literature: Lewis (1978) no. 289

Renowned as one of the foremost Orientalist painters, Lewis began his travels 
in Spain and Italy before venturing further afield to Egypt in search of more 
exotic subject matter. Previously exhibited as a Spanish Girl in a Mantilla, this 
exquisite study is more likely, according to Briony Llewellyn, to have been made 
in Italy, where Lewis is known to have been travelling in 1838. A watercolour 
in the Ashmolean of a Girl in Neapolitan Native Dress, dated 29 August 1838 and 
inscribed ‘Procida’, the name of an island off the coast of Naples, would seem to 
support this theory. It shows a model with a very similar profile and expression, 
also with her eyes demurely downcast.1 

Typical of Lewis is the interest shown in the intricate scalloped patterns of 
the heavy folded lace. It has been suggested that the black veil may represent 
mourning dress, though such veils were frequently worn as head-coverings 
in the Catholic churches of both Spain and Italy, symbolising modesty and 
submission 
to authority. They are especially characteristic of the Holy Week 
festivities 
in Seville. Plate 13 of Lewis’s Sketches of Spain and Spanish Character 
(1836) shows a somewhat less modest young girl gazing yearningly upwards, 
wearing just such a mantilla over a traditional hair-comb (peineta).2 As Lewis 
tended to collect costumes on his travels, it is possible that he provided his 
model with a Spanish lace shawl he owned, rather than representing an Italian 
version.3 

A print in the British Museum now attributed to Lewis also shows a woman 
in profile wearing a scalloped black lace hair-covering, though she is looking 
upwards.4 The fact that the print is in reverse implies that it could have been 
adapted from the drawing, but the print does not include the model’s folded 
hands, apparently wearing fingerless lace gloves.5 The drawing is far more 
sensitively drawn than the print, with delicate touches of red chalk in the hands, 
nostril and lips, and fine long eyelashes. Although this could be an idealised 
Mediterranean beauty, created by Lewis for avid readers of the Annuals, it 
certainly has the sense of a carefully observed portrait taken from life.

Reviewing the annual exhibition by the Society of Painters in Watercolours 
in 1835, Leigh Hunt’s London Journal remarked ‘J. F. Lewis gives us several scenes 
from Spain in his smart and lively style; but why does he for ever drag in that 
demure young lady with a black veil over her head?’.6 Clearly the reviewer’s 
comments did not deter Lewis from repeating this favourite subject. CP

1. WA1942.154
2. British Museum, 1948,0410.131. 
3. Selborne (2011) p. 78.
4. British Museum, 1867,1214.275, originally 
described as F. C. Lewis after J. F. Lewis.
5. See British Museum, 1948,0410.124 for a 
Spanish woman wearing similar gloves.
6. London Journal, 13 May 1835, no. 59, p. 152.



Fig. 38 | Attributed to John Frederick Lewis 
(1804–1876), Bust of an Oriental Woman, c. 1832–56. 
Mixed media, with etching, engraving, stipple, 
and drypoint. British Museum, London, 
1867,1214.275 © Trustees of the British Museum.




40

George Frederic Watts 1817–1904

Lady Holland, c. 1843–5

Graphite on off-white paper
20 x 14.5 cm
Purchased (Hope Fund) with the assistance 
of The Art Fund, 2003
WA2003.196

Literature: Bryant (2004) no. 5

Lady Mary Augusta (1812–1889) was the daughter of the 8th Earl of Coventry 
and his wife, Lady Mary Beauclerk, daughter of the 6th Duke of St Albans. She 
married Henry Fox (1802–1859) in 1833, and accompanied him on diplomatic 
postings to Vienna and Frankfurt. He served as Minister Plenipotentiary to the 
Court of the Grand Duke of Tuscany from 1839 to 1846, and succeeded as 4th 
Lord Holland in 1840. Lady Holland was largely brought up on the Continent 
and notoriously unconventional; she rode side-saddle, for example, long 
before it became fashionable. Noted for her tiny stature and small feet, she was 
described by one contemporary as ‘under three feet in height, the very nicest 
little doll or plaything I ever saw’.1 

Watts met the Hollands on 3 October 1843, having travelled to Florence to 
study fresco as one of the winners of a competition to decorate the Houses 
of Parliament. He soon went to stay with them at the Casa Feroni (now the 
Palazzo Amerighi) for a few days, and remained for three years. Lord Holland 
described him as ‘full of genius and favourable ambition, without any of the 
jealous, niggling, 
detracting vanity of his brother artists’.2 In addition to 
formal portraits of Lord and Lady Holland and a number of other notable 
personages in Florence, both local and visiting, Watts painted several informal 
portraits of his hostess. For a time, they were clearly very intimate. However, by 
May 1845 she was worried about propriety, and confessed to her husband that 
she had ‘a strong and determined wish to break the spell, and make him feel 
that he is ever a welcome guest but not a constant and necessary intimate’.3 Her 
husband agreed. 

During this period of intimacy Watts also made a number of pencil portraits, 
showing Lady Holland reclining on a day bed or sewing with her feet up. This 
drawing is the most suggestive of the series; Lady Holland looks out rather 
coyly, her dress décolleté to the point of provocation. It was clearly a very private 
and cherished portrait, for the sitter exceptionally had it framed in a silver-mounted 
folding frame on her return to London. The other pencil portraits 
made at the Casa Feroni, which constitute the only works by an English artist 
comparable to Ingres’s portrait drawings of British Grand Tourists in Rome, 
were uniformly framed and displayed in an ante-room at the top of the grand 
staircase at Holland House. Among them are Florentine grandees of the 
Corsini, Bentivoglio, and Aldobrandini families, the cosmopolitan Lady Dover, 
as well as Mme de Flahault, Edward Cheney, and the Marquess of Normanby. 
Unfortunately, most are now in ruinous condition.4 CH

1. Quoted in Bryant (2004) p. 43.
2. Bryant (2004) p. 40.
3. Quoted in Gaja (1995) p. 20.
4. Private collection; for a list of those executed 
and those surviving, see Gaja (1995) pp. 116–17.



Fig. 39 | Folding frame for Lady Holland. Wooden 
frame and cover with silver mounts and hinges, 
the lock inscribed MORDAN & CO. LONDON; the 
initials MA in monogram in silver on the front 
cover hallmarked with the date letter m for 1847–8 
and the maker’s mark IW




41

Sir David Wilkie 1785–1841

Portrait of Sotiri, Dragoman of Mr Colquhoun, 1840

Watercolour and bodycolour with some oil, 
over red and black chalk on buff paper
47.5 x 32.7cm
Purchased, 1954
WA1954.53

Literature: Brown (1985) no. 61

Like Lewis and Roberts, Wilkie was drawn to the Near East in search of unusual 
subjects to paint – in particular hoping to discover more historically authentic 
details and scenery for the illustration of biblical narratives, or ‘Scripture 
subjects’. Setting out in August 1840 and travelling via Cologne, Munich and 
Vienna, he reached Constantinople in October 1840, but was delayed there 
by the war over Syria between the Turks and Egyptians. The Turks eventually 
triumphed with British assistance, but Syria remained closed to travellers, and 
Wilkie reached Jerusalem only in February 1841.

This enforced break gave Wilkie an opportunity to make several portraits 
while staying in the suburb of Pera (now Beyoğlu). According to Allan 
Cunningham, he made 53 drawings in Constantinople and six in Pera itself. 
Here we see Sotiri, an Albanian interpreter and guide in the service of Robert 
Colquhoun, British Consul-General at Bucharest. The female figure on 
the left is Wilkie’s ‘beautiful and accomplished’ landlady in the European 
quarter 
of Pera, Madame Giuseppina. The young boy on the right is the son of 
Mustapha, janissary (or bodyguard) of John Cartwright, the Consul-General 
in Constantinople.1 Wilkie notes in his journal that he dined with Cartwright 
on the evening this drawing was begun; Cartwright was frequently hospitable 
during Wilkie’s stay, offering him Christmas dinner and sitting to him on 
numerous occasions in connection with a drawing for Mr Woodburn.2 In the 
background can be seen the suburbs of the city, looking out over the ‘Petits 
Champs des Morts’, or Pera cemetery.

While Wilkie takes great painterly delight in improvising straight onto the 
paper the pure white draperies of Madame Giuseppina, he is clearly intent on 
recording the exact details of the more exotic accoutrements of the scene – 
perhaps intended for future compositions in oils: the gold embroidery on the 
red tunics, the rich blue of the fez tassels, the elaborate hookah pipe, and table 
in the foreground. Wilkie’s studies remained preparatory works only, however, 
as his return trip ended with his sudden death off Malta. He was buried at sea in 
June 1841.

This watercolour was lithographed in Joseph Nash’s edition of Wilkie’s 
Sketches in Turkey, Syria and Egypt, 1840 and 1841 (1843). Nash adds further detail 
to the table, the woman’s hand, and to the child on the left, lending it a winsome 
smirk. In Nash’s print the expression of the boy with the hookah becomes 
resolutely sullen, supporting Cunningham’s opinion of the sitters as ‘grave and 
suspicious’. In Wilkie’s original, by contrast, they all have more kindly or open 
expressions.3 CP

1. Illustrated London News, 18 March 1843, 
supplement, p. 197.
2. Cunningham (1843) III, pp. 330–67.
3. Cunningham (1843) III, p. 341.



Fig. 40 | Joseph Nash (1808–1878) after David 
Wilkie (1785–1841), Portrait of Sotiri, Dragoman of 
Mr Colquhoun, the British Consul at Bucharest, from 
Wilkie’s Sketches in Turkey, Syria and Egypt, plate 12, 
1843. Lithograph. Wellcome Library, London, 
ICV no. 19680 © Wellcome Library, London




42

Edward Lear 1812–1888

Constantinople from Ayoub, 4 September 1848

Pen and brown ink with watercolour 
over graphite on wove paper
33.5 x 52.5 cm
Inscribed: Constantinople from Ayoub. 4 Sept 
1848 39 A / many old tombs – turbans fallen off 
onto ground and with colour and other notes
Bequeathed by Christopher Gandy, 2009
WA2011.5.17

Having established his reputation as one of the greatest natural history 
illustrators, 
Lear decided in 1837 to become a landscape painter, telling his 
employer John Gould that ‘my eyes are so sadly worse, that no bird under 
an Ostrich shall I soon be able to see to do’.1 With money from the Stanley 
and Hornby families, he travelled to Rome for the sake of his health. He 
remained there until 1848, making drawings for sale, and undertaking 
sketching expeditions 
in the Abruzzi and southern Calabria. He published 
two illustrated travel books, Views in Rome and its Environs (1841) and Illustrated 
Excursions in Italy (1846). He then intended to make a tour of the eastern 
Mediterranean to gather material which would provide the basis for oils and 
watercolours made in the studio. It was on the journey out to Greece that Lear 
began his characteristic 
working practice for topographical drawings, making 
pencil sketches during the day and inking them out in the evening, or at some 
later date. He also meticulously 
inscribed each drawing with the date, time, a 
running number for the particular tour, colour, and other notes.

Lear visited Constantinople at the invitation of Lady Canning, wife of the 
British ambassador. He arrived on 1 August, but fell ill, and spent a month 
convalescing 
at the ambassador’s summer residence. He eventually moved 
into the Hôtel d’Angleterre in Pera on 1 September, and began an intensive 
exploration 
of the surroundings. On 4 September he explored the Muslim 
cemetery. 
It had been the burial place of Mohammed’s lieutenant, Ayoub 
(Turkish Eyüp), who was killed in the siege of Constantinople in ad 670. By 
the nineteenth century it had become a vast area of tombs, and a popular place 
for walks and picnics. Lear wrote to his sister that ‘the view of the whole city 
and Golden Horn from the cemetery above Ayoub’s burial place amazes and 
delights me. The effect of the whole panorama as the sun sets is like a glorious 
vision’.2 Lear made three very similar sketches, numbered 39A, 39B, and 40.3 
They are among his grandest and most complex topographical views, and 
served as the basis for finished watercolours, one made in 1856, while the 
central section of this drawing was the subject of an oil painting made for 
Aubrey de Vere Beauclerk.4 CH

1. Quoted in Noakes (1985) p. 93.
2. Noakes (1968) pp. 68–71.
3. The former in the Houghton Library at 
Harvard; the latter sold, Christie’s, 12 December 
2007, lot 51.
4. Sold Sotheby’s, 30 June 2005, lot 296; the 
latter repr. Hyman (1988) p. 15.




43

John Frederick Lewis 1804–1876

Arabs with Camels by a Tomb in the Desert, 1858

Watercolour and bodycolour with black ink 
over graphite on paper
47.5 x 33.5 cm
Signed: J.F.L. 1858
Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum, 1899
WA1899.CDEF.P19

Lewis arrived in Cairo in 1841 and remained there for ten years. He produced 
a large number of drawings of local scenes, including several studies of camels 
with their Bedouin drivers in the Sinai desert. Having begun his career as 
an animal painter, Lewis made careful observations of these strangely aloof 
creatures, which he later incorporated into some of his most famous works – 
including the Frank Encampment so praised by Ruskin (see fig. 15). According to 
Thackeray, whose account of visiting the artist in Cairo was published in 1846, 
Lewis’s ‘great pleasure of pleasures’ was life in the desert with no crowds to 
jostle him.1 His desert scenes were well received, encouraging him to produce 
several variations on this theme. 

Lewis appears to have taken the foreground figure and camel of this study 
from a composition entitled Halt in the Desert, exhibited at the Society of 
Painters in Watercolours in 1854 (no. 248; now private collection). A review of 
this work praised the ‘microscopic textures … of the coats and trappings of the 
animals’ as ‘marvellous in execution’. The writer pointed to the way in which the 
‘minute pebbles which are strewn at the feet of the camels’ relieve the eye as it 
gazes across the ‘unbroken, arid plain’ under a glaring sun.2 

Ruskin encouraged viewers to examine the eyes of Lewis’s camels with 
a magnifying glass to appreciate the depth of painting in them. Certainly 
enlargement 
of the foreground of this work reveals an extraordinary attention 
to detail.3 The texture of the surface is dazzling in its almost abstract use of 
colour. A light cream is scumbled on with a broad dry brush, allowing the brown 
paper to show through, and splashes of pure blue, red, yellow, and white have 
also been added, probably using smaller sable brushes. The sky, by contrast, 
is barely modulated; a single shade of blue is used throughout to convey the 
intensity of the desert light. 

Touches of black seem to have been inked in with a fine pen, especially in the 
tassels, the distant camels, and around the eye of the camel in the foreground. 
Parallel strokes of cream applied to the robe and to the legs of the camel link the 
two visually, and the picture plane as a whole is unified with accents of pure red; 
these draw the eye from the turban to the elaborate woven trappings, and to the 
robe and blankets of the distant group. As the Redgrave brothers put it, through 
his ‘exquisite dexterity of handling’ Lewis is able to combine ‘the utmost finish 
without oppressing you with any sense of the labour of execution’.4 CP

1. Selborne (2011) p. 78.
2. Art Journal (1854) p. 174.
3. Academy Notes (1856) in Ruskin (1903–12) XIV, p. 74.
4. Redgrave (1947) p. 412.




44

Joseph Mallord William Turner 1775–1851

Walton Bridge, c. 1825–8

Watercolour and bodycolour and scratching 
out on paper
28.9 x 45.7 cm
Lent from a private collection, 2010
LI1160.1

Literature: Wilton (1979) no. 824; 
Shanes (1979) no. 36

In 1824 the London publisher Charles Heath commissioned from Turner a 
series of watercolours which would be published as engravings and eventually 
collected as Picturesque Views in England and Wales. The venture was fraught with 
difficulty, not only because of Turner’s notorious demands over the quality of 
the engravers and his habit of retaining the best proofs for himself, but also due 
to prosaic financial difficulties with the publishers. Heath initially envisaged 
120 watercolours, but Turner completed only about 100, of which 96 were 
engraved before the project was abandoned in 1838. Turner was paid £30 for 
each watercolour, the engravers £100 for each plate. The watercolours were 
based on sketches often made many years earlier, and the subjects chosen to 
tell a visual history of England and Wales in the late 1820s and early 1830s, a 
period of great social, political, agricultural, and industrial change. In June 1829 
Heath exhibited 35 watercolours from the series at the Egyptian Hall, Piccadilly. 
Among them was Walton Bridge. 

The bridge over the Thames at Walton had been a favourite subject for artists 
ever since Canaletto had painted the old wooden structure in 1754. This was 
replaced by an elegant and graceful stone bridge, which was opened in 1788 
and survived until 1859. Turner had first sketched it in 1805, and painted two 
magisterial views exhibited separately in Turner’s Gallery in 1806 and 1807. One 
shows the view looking downstream, bought by Sir John Leicester; the other, 
looking in the opposite direction, was bought by the Earl of Essex.1 They show 
Turner at his most poetic and idyllic, the Arcadian landscape in England bathed 
in Claudean light.

In his watercolour for England and Wales, Turner chose the view looking 
upstream, the first arch of the bridge seemingly echoed by the second in the 
distance. Under a vivid and windswept sky of intense purple clouds, life on the 
river continues. On the far bank, a team of horses strain, while numerous figures 
are at work and play in a barge and other boats. In the foreground a young man 
stands in the river fishing; to his right a huge flock of sheep is driven to drink 
by their shepherd. Farther upstream, a woman carries a heavy load on her 
shoulders. 
No longer does Walton Bridge seem to be transplanted from Italy; it 
is a point of reference for one of the most evocative of all the views of England in 
this series, in a perfect state of preservation. CH 

1. Fig. 39; Wilton (1979) no. P60; and National 
Gallery of Victoria, Melbourne; Wilton (1979) 
no. P63.



Fig. 41 | J. M. W. Turner (1775–1851), 
Walton Bridges, 1806–7. Oil on canvas. The Loyd 
Collection, on loan to the Ashmolean Museum, 
Oxford, LI197.3




45

Joseph Mallord William Turner 1775–1851 

Christ Church College, Oxford, 1832–3

Watercolour and bodycolour over graphite 
with scratching out, on paper
29.5 x 41.7 cm
Purchased (B. D. H. Miller Bequest 
Fund) with the assistance of The Art Fund 
(including a contribution from the Wolfson 
Foundation), the MGC/V&A Purchase Grant 
Fund, and donations in memory of Evelyn 
Joll, 2002
WA2002.28

Literature: Shanes (1979) no. 62; Wilton 
(1979) no. 853; Harrison (2000) pp. 86–91

When he came to consider suitable subjects of Oxford for his Picturesque Views 
in England and Wales, Turner revisited the city, probably in September–October 
1830, as part of the tour of the Midlands recorded in his ‘Kenilworth’ sketchbook. 
He made sketches of the High Street and Magdalen Bridge, as well as 
a new view of Christ Church from St Aldates. Unlike Turner’s watercolours 
of this college in the 1790s, which generally incorporate the distinctive shape 
of Tom Tower into picturesque compositions of trees and meadows, cottages 
or gardens, 
this rather formal view shows the college from the road to the 
south-west. 

The finished watercolour is full of excitement and incident. The afternoon 
sunshine bathes the great front range of Christ Church in a golden light, while a 
pair of dons walk resolutely past a table loaded with prizes, their minds on more 
elevated matters. The serenity of the east side of St Aldate’s contrasts strongly 
with the activity in the middle of the road and, especially, with the demolition 
taking place opposite. This provides a highly topical reference, which Turner 
would have observed on his sketching tour. Since the passing of the Mileways 
Act in 1771, it had been thought desirable to widen St Aldate’s and provide a 
more imposing entrance to Pembroke College. This could only be achieved by 
demolishing Cardinal Wolsey’s almshouses, part of the original foundation of 
Christ Church. Eventually, in 1829, the two colleges agreed to proceed. Turner 
shows the demolition in full swing, with men up ladders or manoeuvring huge 
blocks of stone, and a great mess of rubble. In the middle of the road, men 
struggle with a waggon, while in front of them, a group of carefree boys fly kites. 
On the right, Turner has introduced a note of humour, as two dogs sniff each 
other suspiciously. The watercolour was one of nearly 80 for England and Wales 
exhibited by Moon, Boys and Graves in 1833, and the engraving was published 
in the following year.

A few years later, Turner considered including a second view of Oxford in 
the series, and made fresh studies of the High Street and other subjects in his 
‘Oxford’ sketchbook. This resulted in the finished watercolour Merton College, 
which could almost be described as a pendant to Christ Church College, though it 
was never engraved.1 CH 

1. Shanes (1979) no. 87; Wilton 
(1979) no. 887.



Fig. 42 | James Redaway (1797–1858) 
after J. M .W. Turner (1775–1851), Christ Church 
College, Oxford, 1834. Engraving. Ashmolean 
Museum, Oxford, WA2002.29




46

Joseph Mallord William Turner 1775–1851

Blois, c. 1826–30

Watercolour with bodycolour and pen 
and brown and black ink on blue paper
13.5 x 18.3 cm
Presented by John Ruskin, 1861
WA1861.32

Literature: Herrmann (1968) no. 42; 
Wilton (1979) no. 933; Warrell (1997) 
pp. 133–9, 229

At the end of his long tour of north-west France in 1826, Turner travelled up 
the Loire. He spent about a fortnight on the journey from Nantes to Orleans 
in early October, sketching as he went. In addition to the usual sketchbooks, he 
took for the first time a number of sheets of blue paper made at the De Montalt 
mill near Bath. Each sheet could be folded in 16 and provided a mid-tone for 
Turner’s compositions in both pencil and watercolour; they were thus ideal for 
the purpose. The tour was rather hurried, so Turner concentrated on the main 
riverside towns, and did not venture far from the river itself. 

As he approached Blois from the west, Turner would have been reminded of 
a similar view he had copied over 30 years earlier.1 Since there are no surviving 
sketches for the present watercolour of Blois, it is generally assumed to have 
been begun on the spot. The disposition of the town on the hilly riverbanks 
meant that, in order to depict the principal buildings distinct from each other, it 
was necessary to take quite a distant view, which in reality resulted in the details 
becoming unclear. As Warrell has noted, it is a measure of Turner’s mastery that 
he has managed to combine detail with accurate topography in such a small 
composition. The view is dominated by the early eighteenth-century bridge 
constructed to the design of the architect Jacques Gabriel (1666–1742), with the 
obelisk on the east (upstream) side. Turner shows only 9 of the 11 arches of the 
bridge, and adjusts it to be seen frontally, rather than to the side, which would 
have been more accurate. On the far right is the church of St Saturnin, and on 
the left the white facade of the famous Château. Below this, moving right, are 
the spire and towers of the abbey church of St Laumer, the cathedral, and the 
bishop’s palace, also designed by Gabriel.

Like others from the journey, including views of the bridge and château 
at Blois, this watercolour was worked up in London to be engraved. Twenty-
one plates were published by Charles Heath as Turner’s Annual Tour, 1833. The 
collection was received in January 1833 as ‘the most extraordinary collection 
of landscapes ever published in a body’.2 Most of the published watercolours 
were acquired by John Ruskin, who gave them to his old University in 1861. In a 
long letter to his friend Sir Henry Acland, of March 1861, he said that Blois was 
one of two drawings which ‘are full of repentirs and are entirely bad’. However, 
in his Slade lectures for 1871, Ruskin acknowledged that the Loire drawings 
were chiefly notable for ‘their infallible decision’ and ‘their extreme modesty 
in colour’.3 They are among the most miraculous of Turner’s works, detailed, 
atmospheric, suggestive, and tiny. CH 

1. Repr. Warrell (1997) p. 15.
2. Warrell (1997) p. 17.
3. Herrmann (1968) p. 29.




47

Peter De Wint 1784–1849

View of Iffley from the River, 1840–1

Watercolour with scratching out on paper 
33.2 x 52.5 cm
Deposited by the Delegates of the Oxford 
University Press, 1850
WA1850.89

Literature: Petter (1974) p. 93; Smith 
(1982) p. 184; Lord (2007) no. 60 

For Ruskin and many of his contemporaries, the art of Peter de Wint was 
quintessentially English. He 

despises all rules of composition, hates Old Masters and humbug – synonymous terms with 
him – never was abroad in his life, never sketches anything but pig-styes and haystacks, 
and is a thorough-going John Bull of an artist in all respects. But, to make amends for 
all this, he is a most ardent lover of truth, hardly ever paints except from nature, attends 
constantly and effectually to colour and tone, and produces sketches of … miraculous truth 
of atmosphere, colour and light’.1

Like his near-contemporary David Cox, De Wint was a long-standing and 
prolific member of the Society of Painters in Watercolours, exhibiting almost 
annually from 1814 until his death. He became well known for his riverside 
landscapes and harvesting scenes, though his range was much wider, taking 
in picturesque views in Wales and the Lake District, as well as architectural 
subjects and ruins. He was also a prolific illustrator of topographical books, 
including W. B. Cooke’s Thames Scenery (1814–29) and George Cooke’s Views in 
London and its Vicinity (1834). 

It was no doubt through such work that De Wint came to the notice of the 
Delegates of the Clarendon Press in Oxford. After the difficulties over the 
later watercolours by J. M. W. Turner for the Oxford Almanack (cat. 32), they 
had been rather unadventurous in their choice of artists. Most commissions 
had been given to modest watercolour painters, including Henry O’Neill, 
Charles Wild, and Frederick Mackenzie. Perhaps as a result of representations 
from the engravers, they also seem to have preferred small drawings in monochrome 
washes roughly the size of the prospective engraving, rather than full 
watercolours. 

In January 1834 the Delegates paid De Wint £83 5s. 0d. for an unspecified 
number of watercolours. Six of his small monochromes were reproduced 
in the Almanack between 1833 and 1855, featuring views of Oxford from the 
surrounding 
hills, or prominent landmarks and bridges over the Thames. 
In addition, two large watercolours were engraved. It has been reasonably 
suggested that these resulted from a separate, unrecorded commission, this 
View of Iffley from the River for the Oxford Almanack of 1841, and a View of 
Oxford from the West, published in 1852. Here, the village of Iffley, about a mile 
downstream from Oxford, is seen on a windy day, nestling among trees and 
dominated by the tower of its Romanesque church. A horse tows a barge along 
the river, accompanied by two men and a dog. The watercolour is notable for the 
emphatic scratching out to highlight the effect of the wind as it blows across the 
landscape. CH 

1. Quoted by Jim Cheshire in Lord (2007) p. 60.




48

William Turner of Oxford 1789–1862

Stonehenge: Stormy Day, 1846

Watercolour over graphite on paper
45.7 x 67.8 cm
Inscribed verso: No. 5 / Stonehenge - Stormy 
day / W. Turner / 16. St John’s Street./ Oxford
Purchased, 1961
WA1961.39

Literature: Wilcox and Titterington 
(1984) no. 69

Since the Middle Ages, the monument of Stonehenge on Salisbury Plain has 
attracted the interest of antiquaries and artists, many of whom have speculated 
over its origins and function.1 From Thomas Girtin in the early 1790s onwards, 
Stonehenge became associated with the highly Romantic motif of the thunderstorm, 
a symbol of prehistory almost as old as the Earth. Among Girtin’s most 
notable successors was J. M. W. Turner, who, in a watercolour for his Picturesque 
Views in England and Wales, portrayed the stones at the heart of a cataclysm, with 
a shepherd and much of his flock struck down by lightning, and his sheepdog 
howling dejectedly.2 A few years later, in 1836, John Constable sent a large 
watercolour of Stonehenge to the Royal Academy, explaining in the catalogue 
that ‘the mysterious monument of Stonehenge ... carries you back beyond all 
historical record into the obscurity of a totally unknown period’. In a note to 
a plate in his earlier English Landscape Scenery, Constable had gone so far as to 
claim that ‘no kind of effect could be introduced too striking or too impressive 
to portrait it; and among the various appearances of the elements, we naturally 
look to the grander phenomena of nature as according best with the character of 
such a scene’.

William Turner of Oxford exhibited a number of distant views of Stonehenge 
in the late 1830s, but it was generally agreed that a much closer treatment was 
more effective. Indeed, as early as 1798, William Gilpin, in his Observations on the 
Western Parts of England, noted that 

Stonehenge, at a distance, appeared only as a diminutive object. Standing on so vast an 
area as Salisbury Plain, it was lost in the immensity around it. As we approached, it 
gained more respect ... but when we arrived on the spot, it appeared astonishing beyond 
conception ... it is not the elegance of the work, but the grandeur of the idea that strikes us.

This large watercolour, exhibited at the Society of Painters in Watercolours in 
1846, is one of Turner’s most magisterial. After his tour of Scotland in 1838, he 
had mastered not only the picturesque pastoral landscape around Oxford, but 
also the sublime scenery beloved by his namesake. Indeed, it is clear that his 
watercolour of Stonehenge pays homage to that of J. M. W. Turner, and politely 
suggests that a less extreme composition might be equally imposing. The flock 
of sheep, the shepherd, and his dog are integral components of the landscape. 
So are the sea birds circling above, picked out against the lowering sky, with a 
shower of rain approaching from the right, and a clearing in the clouds directly 
above the monument. CH 

1. See Pitts (2007)
2. Private collection; Wilton (1979) no. 811. 




49

William Turner of Oxford 1789–1862

Waterlilies in the Cherwell, 1850s

Watercolour and bodycolour on paper
38 x 58.4 cm
Bequeathed by Miss Annie Symonds, 1938
WA1938.34

Ruskin apostrophised William Turner of Oxford as ‘this patient and unassuming 
master’.1 Born near Burford, he was brought up by an uncle 
who purchased the Manor House and parish of Shipton-on-Cherwell in 
1804. Turner studied in London with John Varley between 1804 and 1807, 
joined the Society of Painters in Watercolours in 1808, and settled in Oxford 
in about 1810–11. Thereafter he lived modestly, became a popular drawing 
master, and exhibited in London every year. Apart from views of Oxford and 
the surrounding 
countryside and villages, Turner’s range extended to the 
mountainous 
regions of the British Isles. His tour of Scotland in 1838 provided 
him with subjects for the rest of his life.

Turner’s first exhibit at the Society of Painters in Watercolours, in 1808 had 
been On the River Charwell [sic], Oxfordshire and he was to show several pictures 
of this title over the course of his career. In 1837 his view of The River Cherwell, 
near Woodstock, Oxfordshire was appended with the line, ‘Know that the lilies have 
spread their bells … ’ from Felicia Hemans’s ‘Water-Lilies: A Fairy Song’. This 
sentimental lyric exhorts elves to use the water lilies as boats, making music as 
they sail, but being careful of the midday heat, since ‘the life of the lily may not 
be long’. 

It would seem that Turner enjoyed the association of water lilies both with 
the supernatural and with intimations of mortality, for he appended various 
lines from Mrs Hemans’s poem to later versions of this subject exhibited in 
1846 (bought by the Duke of Sutherland) and in 1849 (given to the Society of 
Painters in Watercolours after Turner’s death).2 In 1851 he produced yet another 
version, the title supplemented with the line, ‘Conscious of the earliest beam’ Mrs C 
Smith. Charlotte Smith’s poem ‘The Horologe of the Fields’ extols the beauties 
of nature and the natural manner of telling the time, not with an expensive 
clock, but by looking at flowers such as the Nymphaea or water lily. Turner 
exhibited a final version of the subject in 1854. 

The present example probably dates from the 1850s. It shares with other late 
versions a close examination of water lilies in the calm waters of the Cherwell, 
shaded from the heat of the sun by the arching boughs of willow overhead. The 
work’s high colouring, and attentive, almost obsessive, observation of nature, 
including a moorhen and a kingfisher, give it an almost hallucinatory quality, 
appropriate to the texts that Turner associated with the subject. CH 

1. Quoted in Herrmann (1966) p. 246.
2. Wilcox and Titterington (1984) no. 75.




50

David Cox 1783–1859

Rhyl Sands, c. 1854–5

Charcoal and watercolour on rough paper 
26.7 x 36.9 cm
Lent from a private collection
LI2224.3

Cox first painted panoramic beach scenes in France in the early 1830s, perhaps 
inspired by J. M. W. Turner’s Calais Sands, Low Water, Poissards Collecting Bait, 
shown at the Royal Academy in 1830 (now in the National Gallery), which 
in turn was a homage to the Anglo-French artist Richard Parkes Bonington 
(1801–1828). As Cox’s son noted, such compositions ‘attracted him from 
the opportunity 
of displaying space over sands with bright figures’.1 Soon 
afterwards, 
in July 1834, Cox visited Morecambe Bay; the sight of travellers 
crossing Lancaster and Ulverston Sands at low tide provided material for 
numerous watercolours and oils, characterised by low horizons and vast skies in 
different weather. 

During his annual summer sketching tour in 1842, Cox once again explored 
North Wales. He already knew the area well, having, among other projects, 
provided illustrations to Thomas Roscoe’s Wanderings and Excursions in North 
Wales (1835). On this occasion he spent a day or two making studies of Rhyl 
Sands, which provided the basis for one of his exhibits at the Society of Painters 
in Watercolours in the following year. More important, however, were his two 
visits to Rhyl in 1850 and, especially, in 1854. 

Cox had suffered a stroke in 1853, and was ostensibly on holiday with his 
son in August 1854. He went armed with some sheets of what he called ‘Scotch’ 
paper, which he used to produce some of his most informal and luminous 
sketches. He had discovered this paper, which Peter Bower has established 
was made as wrapping paper at Langley Mill, County Durham, in 1836, and 
was so taken with it that he bought a whole ream, which cost £11 and weighed 
280 pounds.2 

This watercolour is one of a group of sketches made on the spot in August 
1854. The horizon is higher than in other representations of Rhyl Sands, 
dividing 
the composition exactly in half. On the right are very brief indications 
of holidaymakers and bathing machines in front of the boarding houses 
that lined the seafront. Otherwise, in a few apparently haphazard strokes of 
charcoal, 
and thinly applied watercolour in blue-grey and pinkish-brown, the 
artist has successfully evoked a windy day on a timeless anonymous coast. Such 
a sketch was made for its own sake, and not for sale. It is tempting to view these 
late works as precursors of Boudin and the Impressionists, but they are more 
appropriately considered as the personal meditations of an elderly artist in 
ill-health. CH 

1. Quoted in Wilcox (2008) p. 179.
2. Bower in Wilcox (2008) p. 101.




51

Samuel Palmer 1805–1881

Tintagel Castle: Approaching Rain, 1848–9

Watercolour and bodycolour, mixed in 
parts with gum arabic, over indications in 
graphite and black chalk on paper
30 x 44.4 cm
Presented by Percy Moore Turner, 1942
WA1942.27

Literature: Brown (1983) no. 31; Lister 
(1988) no. 453; Vaughan, Barker, Harrison 
(2005) no. 122

Following his return from an extended honeymoon and study trip in Italy 
in 1839, Palmer found it difficult to reconcile the intense light and infinite 
distances 
of the Italian countryside with the familiar landscapes of England and 
Wales. For a few years he continued to send oil paintings to the Royal Academy 
and the British Institution, but it became clear that watercolour now suited him 
better. Following his election in 1843 as an Associate of the Society of Painters in 
Watercolours, Palmer regularly sent the maximum eight works to their annual 
exhibition. His main income at this period was derived from teaching.

Palmer had first visited the West Country in 1834, when he made sketches in 
North Devon which provided him with the basis for a number of oil paintings.1 
In the summer of 1848 he made a further tour of Devonshire and Dorset which 
extended to Cornwall. He wrote to his old friend and fellow artist, Edward 
Calvert (1799–1883) that 

The north Cornish coast is very wild, but the country above treeless and desolate. There is 
one most curious place on the peaks of two cliffs, which are gradually tumbling by huge 
fragments into the sea, viz. Tintagel Castle, the birth-place and palace of King Arthur. It 
was a mouldered ruin in the days of Henry the Eighth. Some turreted fragments remain 
which are very quaint and strange.2

Unusually, Palmer made a large sketch of the scene in chalk and watercolour 
(now in the British Museum). The ruins sit on top of a massive rock formation, 
facing a second outcrop, the chasm between cluttered with boulders. Under the 
castle is a deep cavern. 

This study formed the basis for the finished watercolour, shown at the 
Society of Painters in Watercolours in 1849. The viewpoint has shifted slightly 
to the right and further back, so that the castle is now almost in the centre of 
the composition, 
with a waggon bearing a huge anchor travelling along a road 
on the right. In the foreground, gulls fly disconsolately above the mast and 
wreckage 
of a sailing vessel, while goats forage for vegetation up a path on the 
left. An approaching rainstorm adds drama to the lighting. This has justifiably 
been described as one of the greatest of Palmer’s watercolours. Its highly 
wrought technique of stippling evokes the complete assimilation of the ruins 
with the geological formation of the rocky promontory. CH

1. Notably Scene from Lee, North Devon 
(Fitzwilliam Museum); Lister (1988) no. 219; 
Vaughan, Barker, Harrison (2005) no. 97.
2. Quoted in Vaughan, Barker, Harrison (2005) 
p. 201.




52

Samuel Palmer 1805–1881

The Prospect, 1864–81

Watercolour and bodycolour with gum 
arabic, on London board
50.8 x 70.5 cm
Signed: Samuel Palmer
Purchased with the assistance of The Art 
Fund (including a contribution from 
the Wolfson Foundation), the National 
Heritage Memorial Fund, the MLA/V&A 
Purchase Grant Fund, the Headley 
Trust, the Friends of the Ashmolean, and 
numerous private donations, 2005
WA2005.165

Literature: Lister (1988) no. m12; 
Vaughan, Barker, Harrison (2005) no. 146

When she died in 1837, Palmer’s beloved nurse left him her copy of Tonson’s 
edition of Milton, which he cherished all his life. He was brought up on Milton, 
and had a particular admiration for the ‘minor poems’, ‘L’Allegro’ and ‘Il 
Penseroso’, which he could recite by heart. In 1863 the solicitor and collector 
Leonard Rowe Valpy invited Palmer to paint something that appealed to his 
‘inner sympathies’, and he responded that he had long considered making a 
series of illustrations to ‘L’Allegro’ and ‘Il Penseroso’.1 Initially, there were to 
be four contrasting pairs, divided equally between the two poems; but Palmer 
eventually 
produced three illustrations to ‘L’Allegro’ and five to ‘Il Penseroso’. 
The project preoccupied the artist for the last 18 years of his life. Each watercolour 
was exhibited at the Society of Painters in Watercolours, three in 1868, 
one each in 1870 and 1877, two in 1881, and the last, The Bellman, which he 
considered unfinished, posthumously in 1882.2 

The Prospect was the last watercolour to be completed: Palmer was still 
working on it a few months before his death in May 1881. It illustrates lines 
from ‘Il Penseroso’: ‘Straight mine eye hath caught new pleasures / Whilst the 
landscape round it measures … ’ In an undated letter to Valpy, Palmer expresses 
the difficulty in capturing the scene: ‘The other day I think the true “vision” 
came of “The Prospect”. It is a curious subject, for there seems no medium 
between a mappy Buckinghamshire treatment and a genial poetic swoon.’3 
By February 1881 he was able to report to Valpy that ‘I have worked upon, and 
I think, finished the part I was most anxious about, namely, the little town by 
the blue river. So I hope all is safe, and, if so, it will be a wonder, for never man 
ran riot with a hobby as I have done here. I always, from a child, expected to see 
a great deal when I was taken to see a “prospect”’.4 The view is over an imaginary 
bay reminiscent of the Bay of Baiae which Palmer had drawn in 1838, the sun 
shining brilliantly on an Italianate hill town on the left. In the shadow of the 
foreground, a traveller points out the prospect to his two female companions. 
Behind them, in the valley, a hamlet very like Shoreham nestles among the trees.

The Milton watercolours were painted on thick London board, best suited to 
take Palmer’s accumulated layers of pigment. They form a splendid culmination 
to his life. When The Prospect and The Eastern Gate (fig.43) were exhibited 
in 
1881, the critic and former member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, 
F. G. Stephens, rightly called them ‘epoch-making’.5 CH

1. Vaughan, Barker, Harrison (2005) p. 227.
2. Lister (1988) nos. M10, M12, M14, M16, M20, 
M22, M25, M27.
3. Quoted in Vaughan, Barker, Harrison (2005) 
p. 227.
4. Ibid.
5. Ibid.



Fig. 43 | Samuel Palmer (1805–1881), The Eastern 
Gate, exhibited 1881. Watercolour and bodycolour 
on London board. Private Collection




Ruskin & the
Pre-Raphaelites

Observation
& Imagination

Detail from Albert Moore, 
Study of an Ash Trunk (cat. 59)



53

John Ruskin 1819–1900

Morning in Spring, with North-east Wind, at Vevey, May–June 1849, or 1 May 1869

Watercolour and bodycolour over graphite 
on pale grey wove paper
17.7 x 26.4 cm
Presented by John Ruskin to the Ruskin 
Drawing School, 1875
WA.RS.ED.298.b

Ruskin frequently visited Switzerland, at first with his parents and later 
independently. He was inspired by the example of J. M. W. Turner, several of 
whose Swiss watercolours he owned; but his purpose was very different. His 
father’s birthday gift in 1834 of a copy of Horace de Saussure’s Voyages dans les 
Alpes (1779–96) taught him the scientific importance of mountains and their 
formation. The lessons in geology provided by this and other books always 
informed Ruskin’s own drawings, and were to play a major role in his discussion 
of landscape painting in Modern Painters. Like Saussure, he had a particular 
affection for Mont Blanc and the mountains around Chamonix, and made some 
of his most elaborate drawings of the glaciers and peaks in the vicinity. 

Elsewhere in Switzerland, he painted a number of watercolours of panoramic 
views across the lakes. These are often difficult to date accurately, because after 
about 1845 Ruskin used a number of different styles for his drawings, depending 
on their subject and function. Consequently, there is no consensus on the dating 
of this atmospheric view of Lake Geneva. It may have been produced in May or 
early June 1849, when Ruskin stayed at Vevey as part of a tour of Switzerland; 
this resulted in a remarkable group of watercolours of alpine scenery inspired by 
Turner. On the other hand, when Ruskin gave Morning in Spring to his Drawing 
School he placed it in the same frame as a view of Afternoon in Spring, with South 
Wind, at Neuchâtel (fig. 44). The latter is generally dated to 1866, but may have 
been made on 30 April 1869, the day before Ruskin was in Vevey. Whereas the 
Neuchâtel watercolour is one of the most vividly coloured of all Ruskin’s works, 
the wind-flecked water of the lake an intense emerald green, this view towards 
the north-east across the rippling waters of Lake Geneva is much more subtle, 
with a greatly restricted palette. The buildings of the town of Vevey are silhouetted 
against the Molard and the Dent de Lys beyond, the early morning sky is 
streaked with bright white clouds, and a cushion of mist lies above the shore. 
Ruskin placed these watercolours in the section ‘Rocks, Waters, Clouds’ in his 
Educational Series. CH 


Fig. 44 | John Ruskin (1819–1900), Afternoon 
in Spring, with South Wind, at Neuchâtel, 30 April 
1869. Watercolour and bodycolour over graphite 
on pale grey wove paper. Ashmolean Museum, 
Oxford, WA.RS.ED.298.a




54

Joseph Mallord William Turner 1775–1851

Venice: The Riva degli Schiavoni, 1840

Brush and pen and ink, with watercolour 
on paper
21.7 x 31.8 cm
Presented by John Ruskin, 1861
WA1861.10

Literature: Herrmann (1968) no. 58; 
Wilton (1979) no. 1364; Warrell (2003) 
no. 108

From his earliest days Turner was an inveterate sketcher, filling books of various 
sizes with studies in pencil, watercolour, and occasionally pen and ink. Over 300 
survive, mostly in the Turner Bequest in the Tate. Some were broken up by the 
artist, and a few dismembered after his death. He had a phenomenal memory, 
and the sketches served to remind him of the precise disposition of buildings 
and other features of the landscape, more than any effects of atmosphere or 
weather. They were generally bound in hard covers, though from the late 1820s 
onwards Turner also used books with more flexible covers which he could roll 
up and put in his pocket. These ‘roll’ sketchbooks, as they are known, were 
especially useful for sketching in watercolour.

Turner first visited Venice in 1819, spending a few days there on his extensive 
tour of Italy, which concentrated on Rome. He returned in 1833, making 
intensive sketches in the so-called ‘Venice’ sketchbook, and a number of watercolours, 
especially of night scenes and dark interiors. His third visit to Venice, 
from 20 August to 3 September 1840, resulted in his most ethereal watercolour 
studies of the city, originally contained in two roll sketchbooks, which Ian 
Warrell has identified as the ‘Grand Canal and Giudecca’ sketchbook (Tate) and 
the ‘Storm’ sketchbook. The latter was broken up shortly before or after Turner’s 
death, and the individual sheets dispersed through the artist’s dealer, Thomas 
Griffith. It consisted of nearly 20 watercolours, many of squally atmospheric 
effects. John Ruskin bought six; he gave three to his old University in 1861 and 
the others to Cambridge. Apart from the delight in Venice and its unique light, 
these watercolours were probably made as patterns to show possible patrons for 
future commissions, either of oil paintings or of watercolours. However, there 
are no finished watercolour views of Venice at this late period, although Turner 
continued to exhibit oils of Venetian subjects until 1846.

This view of the Riva degli Schiavoni shows the area between St Mark’s 
Square and the church of the Pietà, the marble facade only partly constructed. 
Behind rises the ghostly campanile and domed church of S. Zaccaria. Most 
of Turner’s attention is focused on the buildings at the water’s edge and the 
shipping in front of them. The sailing boats, canoes, and gondolas are depicted 
in an extraordinarily free network of fine lines, made with the pen rather than 
the brush. The shimmering reflections in the calm waters of the Bacino and the 
hazy atmosphere give this scene an air of unreality characteristic of Turner’s 
Venice. CH



55

John Ruskin 1819–1900

The Exterior of the Ducal Palace, Venice, 1852

Watercolour over graphite on off-white 
paper, some lines ruled, and with some 
scratching out
36.2 x 50.2 cm
Inscribed: intervals of pillars on top 
of balustrade and with numbers and 
measurements
Presented by John Ruskin to the Ruskin 
Drawing School, 1875
WA.RS.REF.067

Literature: Ruskin (1903–12) xxi, p. 31

Ruskin first visited Venice as a tourist with his parents in 1835. However, it was 
not until he was allowed to travel there alone, in 1845, that he began the careful 
study of the city which resulted in several of his most influential books. The 
immediate stimulus was the profound changes that were taking place in the city, 
such as the construction of a railway bridge across the lagoon, which destroyed 
the romantic approach by gondola. Above all, Ruskin was appalled by the 
wholesale ‘restoration’ of buildings such as St Mark’s Cathedral and the palaces 
on the Grand Canal, the facades of which were being removed and replaced. 
He also detested other general ‘improvements’, for example the installation of 
gas lamps ‘of the last Birmingham fashion’ along the canals.1 Returning in the 
following year, he observed that ‘The rate at which Venice is going is about that 
of a lump of sugar in hot tea’.2 It was only in the winters of 1849–50 and 1851–2 
that Ruskin was able systematically to record the buildings of Venice, intending 
to incorporate his observations into a general history of Venetian architecture 
and its relationship with the society that had produced it. The publication of The 
Stones of Venice in 1851–3 was to prove a landmark in the preservation of Venice, 
and the chapter on ‘The Nature of the Gothic’ inspired William Morris to 
champion the hand-crafted over the industrial. 

The Doge’s palace occupied a prominent position in Ruskin’s thesis; he 
considered it ‘a mode of perfection’.3 This drawing, made from a boat, shows 
the right-hand half of the facade towards the sea, together with the Ponte della 
Paglia and part of the Bridge of Sighs, as well as the prison beyond. Ruskin has 
concentrated on particular architectural details, and the rest of the drawing is 
rapidly sketched in broad wash. Although it was intended principally as a record, 
a group of gondolas enlivens the scene. 

Ruskin was proud of the accuracy of this drawing, noting that it was 
‘sketched … by measurement, with extreme care; and showing the sharp 
window traceries, 
which are rarely seen in photographs’.4 Indeed, he claimed 
that ‘No one had ever drawn the traceries of the Ducal Palace till I did it myself. 
Canaletti, in his way, is just as false as Prout; Turner no better. Not one of them 
painted anything but their general impressions; and not a soul in England knew 
that there was a system in Venetian architecture at all, until I made the measured 
(to half and quarter inches) elevation of it.’5 CH 

1. Quoted in Hewison (2000) p. 20. 
2. Quoted in Hewison (2000) p. 25.
3. Ruskin (1903–12) VIII, p. 111.
4. Ruskin (1903–12) xix, p. 456.
5. Ruskin (1903–12) xiV, p. 424.




56

Joseph Mallord William Turner 1775–1851

Sketch of Mackerel, c. 1835–40

Watercolour over graphite on Whatman 
Turkey Mill paper dated 1818
22.4 x 28.7 cm
Presented by John Ruskin to the Ruskin 
Drawing School, 1875 
WA.RS.ED.182

Literature: Herrmann (1968) no. 80; 
Wilton (1979) no. 1399

It was at Farnley Hall in Yorkshire, the seat of his close friend Walter Fawkes 
(1769–1825), that Turner was able to indulge most consistently his love of fishing 
and shooting. On his visits between 1808 and 1825 he also made numerous 
watercolour landscapes and, especially after 1815, still lifes for his patron. 
Fawkes assembled a fine library, in which natural history occupied a prominent 
part. In addition to acquiring the standard texts, he compiled an Ornithological 
Collection based on Thomas Bewick’s History of British Birds. This included 20 
watercolours by Turner, who also painted a number of other studies of birds at 
Farnley, among them a Sketch of a Pheasant later owned by John Ruskin.1

For the last 18 years of his life, Turner lived with Sophia Booth (1798–1875). 
She was recently widowed when they met in 1833 at Margate, where she kept a 
lodging house facing the harbour. While staying with her, he made a number 
of studies of mackerel. One of these is inscribed by Mrs Booth, ‘sketched from 
Fish brought in for dinner at Margate of which Fish Mr Turner partook of 
for his dinner’.2 The watercolours of mackerel have one, two, and three fish 
respectively; 
a fourth shows a single mackerel and some prawns, while another 
depicts rather less appetising species, again with prawns.3 In this Sketch of 
Mackerel the three fish are consummately captured in brief but suggestive 
brushstrokes, their colours bright, their scales opalescent. 

Ruskin greatly admired this study, inviting Frederic Leighton in June 1863 
to visit him in Denmark Hill ‘if it be but to look at some dashes in sepia by 
Reynolds [sic. Romney, cat. 12], and a couple of mackerel by Turner’. Later, he 
wrote of the whole group that ‘These sketches … are all executed with a view 
mainly to colour, and, in colour, to its ultimate refinements, as in the grey down 
of the birds and the subdued iridescences of the fish. There is no execution in 
watercolour comparable to them for combined rapidity, delicacy, and precision 
– the artists of the world may be challenged to approach them’.4 CH

1. Now in the Ashmolean, WA.RS.ED.183; 
Herrmann (1968) no. 78; Wilton (1979) no. 634; 
Lyles (1988) no. 38. 
2. Wilton (1979) no. 1401.
3. Herrmann (1968) no. 81; Wilton (1979) 
no. 1043. The other studies of mackerel are Wilton 
(1979) nos. 1400–1402.
4. Quoted in Herrmann (1968) pp. 97–8.




57

William Henry Hunt 1790–1864

Peach and Grapes, c. 1850

Watercolour and bodycolour over graphite 
on paper
12.4 x 17.5 cm
Signed: W HUNT
Presented by John Ruskin to the Ruskin 
Drawing School, 1875
WA.RS.ED.213

Literature: Witt (1982) no. 689

A tradesman’s son, Hunt was trained by John Varley and at Dr Monro’s Academy 
alongside Turner and Linnell. ‘Bird’s Nest’ Hunt, as he came to be called, may 
appear limited in his subject matter to modern viewers, but his range is in fact 
far wider than the still-lifes for which he is best known. In his earlier career he 
worked on landscapes, genre scenes and even scene-painting. The Ashmolean’s 
large drawing of the Portico of St-Martin-in-the-Fields (1822) demonstrates 
that he 
was equally skilled in tackling large-scale architectural subjects.1

The illusionistic technique of this exquisitely detailed watercolour would have 
been frowned on by eighteenth-century viewers for its excessive ‘minuteness’. 
However, Ruskin saw Hunt’s work as exemplifying the sincere observation 
of nature that he was trying to inculcate in his students, and this work formed 
part of the Educational Series at his Drawing School in Oxford, demonstrating 
imitative colour. Ruskin asserted that the peach and grapes are ‘not to teach you 
anything you didn’t know about those familiar fruits’; they seek rather ‘to show 
what is meant by Painting, as distinguished from daubing 
… from chromo-tinting, 
from tray-varnishing, … from the sort of things that people 
in general 
do when you put a brush into their hands’.2 A very similar work is seen hanging 
in Ruskin’s bedroom at Brantwood, indicating just how highly he valued Hunt’s 
work.3 He particularly admired his keen eye for truth, though the compositions 
were in fact artfully contrived, arranged on a table-top so that Hunt could 
observe the mossy ‘bank’ at eye-level.

The late works are primarily concerned with balancing complementary 
colours. Hunt even entitled one of his still-lifes The Contrast: Red and Green 
Apples, complaining in a letter to John Linnell in 1863 that the public still 
considered his fruit as something to eat rather than as studies in colour.4 The 
delicate stippling in this work conveys the soft furry texture of the peach and the 
purple-
grey bloom of the grapes. Under magnification the tiny strokes of colour 
are revealed to be laid alongside each other as pure tints, allowing the colours to 
blend in the eye at a distance. Hunt was fascinated by subtle gradations within 
a single hue, for example floating mottled flecks of blue over a reddish-purple 
underlayer in the grapes. Reflected blue from the grapes can be found in the 
yellow peach; rather than being clearly outlined, the fruits melt imperceptibly 
into coloured shadows. 

Hunt’s techniques, in particular his glazing with transparent washes over an 
opaque white underlayer, had a lasting impact on the Pre-Raphaelites. Through 
Ruskin’s Elements of Drawing (1857) they also influenced Monet, Seurat and 
Signac, who were to apply the theory of simultaneous contrasts and optical 
colour-mixing more systematically in their Divisionist paintings. CP

1. WA1935.161
2. Ruskin (1880) p. 83.
3. Engraving after Arthur Severn, reproduced in 
Witt (1982) pl. 105.
4. Quoted in Jones (1981) p. 47.




58

John Ruskin 1819–1900 

Enlarged Studies of the Feathers of a Kingfisher’s Wing and Head, and a Study of a Group of the 
Wing Feathers, real Size, July 1871

Watercolour and bodycolour over graphite 
on paper
37.5 x 25 cm
Presented by John Ruskin to the Ruskin 
Drawing School, 1875
WA.RS.RUD.204

Literature: Lyles (1988) no. 58

On his visits to Farnley Hall (see cat. 56), Ruskin especially admired Turner’s 
study of a dead kingfisher; on his second visit in 1884, he examined it ‘for a 
long time with a microscope, and he said he could not find words to describe its 
exquisite beauty’.1 His own study of a kingfisher is one of his most meticulous 
and closely observed watercolours, apparently made from a stuffed specimen 
belonging to his friend, Sir Henry Acland (fig. 45).2 It was placed in the 
Rudimentary Series in the Drawing School, together with four other studies 
of a kingfisher, under the general title ‘Exercises in Colour with Shade, on 
Patterns of Plumage and Scale’. This included two contrasting drawings, a 
watercolour Study of a Kingfisher with dominant reference to colour and a pencil Study 
of a Kingfisher with dominant reference to shade. In addition, there was a Feather of 
a Kingfisher’s Back, enlarged, an Enlarged Drawing of a Kingfisher’s Wing, and this 
sheet of three different portions of the plumage from the head and wing. All 
were probably drawn in October 1871. Together they provided the student with 
a uniquely comprehensive examination of a single specimen, Ruskin’s other 
studies of feathers generally being isolated examples.

Ruskin discussed birds and their plumage in Love’s Meinie (1881), based 
on lectures given at Oxford between 1873 and 1881; and The Laws of Fesole 
(1877–8), intended as a sequel to The Elements of Drawing (1857). In the latter, he 
wrote eloquently 
of the ‘elementary organic structure’ of a bird, and, in a truly 
scientific 
manner, explained the different textures of a bird’s plumage, and the 
nomenclature of the different parts of a feather: ‘A feather always consists of the 
quill and its rays; a ray of the shaft and its barbs. Flexible shafts are filaments; 
and flexible barbs, cilia’.3 His watercolours of these individual elements of the 
kingfisher’s feathers are among his most breathtaking in their confidence, 
delicacy, and microscopic attention to detail. CH

1. Quoted in Lyles (1988) p. 57.
2. This specimen is preserved in the 
Oxford University Museum of Natural 
History.
3. Quoted in Lyles (1988) p. 66.



Fig. 45 | John Ruskin (1819–1900), Study of a 
Kingfisher, with dominant reference to colour, 1871. 
Watercolour and bodycolour over graphite on 
wove paper. Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, 
WA.RS.RUD.201




59

Albert Joseph Moore 1841–1893

Study of an Ash Trunk, 1857

Watercolour on paper
30.3 x 22.9 cm
Signed in monogram and dated: AM 1857
Purchased, 1959
WA1959.59

Literature: Staley and Newall (2004) 
no. 14

In the first volume of Modern Painters (1843), John Ruskin exhorted every painter 
to ‘go to Nature in all singleness of heart, and walk with her laboriously and 
trustingly, having no other thoughts but how best to penetrate her meaning, and 
remember her instruction; rejecting nothing, selecting nothing, and scorning 
nothing; believing all things to be right and good, and rejoicing always in the 
truth’. For a few years the members of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, founded 
in 1848, followed this prescription, painting in a minutely detailed manner in 
bright colours on a white ground. 

The backgrounds to Millais’s paintings of Ophelia (1851–2) and John Ruskin 
(1853–4) represent the most intently Ruskinian examination of nature by a 
member 
of the Brotherhood.1 It was not until the mid-1850s that landscape 
artists 
realised the potential of Ruskin’s words. The true pioneer was John 
William Inchbold (1830–1888), who exhibited A Study, in March at the Royal 
Academy in 1855, and Mid-Spring in the following year.2 Ruskin observed that the 
latter was ‘as close and wonderful a piece of work as there is on the room walls’.3 

A further impetus to the habits of microscopic examination of nature came in 
1857 with the publication of Ruskin’s Elements of Drawing, in which he specifically 
advocated that ‘In woods, one or two trunks, with the flowery ground below, 
are at once the richest and easiest kind of study: a not very thick trunk, say nine 
inches or a foot in diameter, with ivy running up it sparingly, is an easy and 
always a rewarding subject’.4 

Among the artists who must have read these lines was Albert Moore. The 
younger brother of the landscape artist Henry Moore (1831–1896), he entered 
the Royal Academy Schools in 1858. His first exhibits at the Royal Academy were 
wholly Ruskinian: two watercolours of dead birds in 1857, followed by this Study 
of an Ash Trunk in 1858. The close focus on a small section of a tree trunk with ivy 
growing up it, partly covered with moss, the careful delineation of the individual 
leaves of the ferns, and the general untidiness of the undergrowth all follow 
Ruskin’s recommendation. So too does the limited palette of greens and browns. 
It was an exercise that Moore never repeated: he later became a distinguished 
painter of historical subjects, especially featuring classicised females.

1. Tate and Ashmolean Museum respectively; 
Rosenfeld and Smith (2007) nos. 37–8.
2. Ashmolean Museum and private collection; 
Newall (1993) pp. 11–13 and no. 6.
3. Quoted in Staley and Newall (2004) no. 12.
4. Quoted in Cruise (2012) p. 86.




60

Alfred William Hunt 1830–1896

A November Rainbow – Dolwyddelan Valley 11 November 1866, 1 p. m., 11 November 1866

Watercolour on paper
50.3 x 75.5 cm
Purchased with the assistance of 
The Art Fund, 1922
WA1922.1

Literature: Newall (2004) no. 35

The son of a minor landscape painter from Liverpool, Hunt was admitted as 
a scholar of Corpus Christi College, Oxford, in 1848. He won the Newdigate 
Prize for Poetry in 1851 and was elected a Fellow of his College in 1857. Even 
as an undergraduate he travelled widely, and frequently exhibited landscape 
paintings. 
He no doubt read Ruskin’s volumes of Modern Painters, and will have 
found the third, ‘Of Mountain Beauty’ (1856), of particular interest, since it 
encouraged a close geological examination of the structure of the mountain 
landscapes that Hunt had already been painting in the Lake District and North 
Wales. Stimulated by Ruskin, Hunt adopted a style that was at once minutely 
detailed yet richly atmospheric, whether in panoramic views in Snowdonia, 
or the patient examination of the bough of a tree or a piece of rock. Ruskin 
recognised Hunt’s prowess, describing a picture shown at the Royal Academy in 
1856 as ‘the best landscape I have seen in the exhibition for many a day – uniting 
most subtle finish and watchfulness of Nature, with real and rare power of 
composition’.1 He was not always so complimentary, however, calling Hunt’s 
exhibits in 1859 ‘extremely well meant, but suffering under the same oppression 
of plethoric labour’, while in 1873 he tried to instruct him in capturing form 
before colour. Nevertheless, Hunt remained closer to Ruskin than any other 
landscape artist.

A November Rainbow is one of the artist’s most celebrated works. It was shown 
at the Old Water-Colour Society in 1867 with the elaborate title insisting on a 
precise, momentary effect of weather, emphasised by a subtitle from Book IV 
of Tennyson’s The Princess: A Medley: ‘A stroke of cruel sunshine on a cliff, when 
all the glens are drown’d in azure gloom.’ Christopher Newall has established 
that the viewpoint is taken from the hill to the south of the valley of the Lledr, 
near the hamlet of Bertheos, and about a mile and a quarter to the west of the 
village of Dolwyddelan. In the middle distance on the right is Dolwyddelan 
Castle, while in the foreground a cowherd protects himself from the rain with 
a piece of sacking. As one reviewer noted, the meteorological effect was one 
favoured by the artist, ‘a rainbow among mountains, with his peculiarly hard, 
dark shadows and pale sunlight’.2 Technically, this watercolour is one of Hunt’s 
most sophisticated, 
in composition, and in the variety of effects in the paint, 
ranging from minute stippling to vigorous scratching out. The result is a work 
of astonishing breadth and power, far eclipsing a similar composition created by 
the artist ten years earlier.3 CH

1. Quoted in Newall (2004) p. 7.
2. Quoted in Newall (2004) p. 120.
3. Stainton (1985) no. 192.




61

William Holman Hunt 1827–1910

The Sleeping City: the Cemetery of Pera, Constantinople, 1856–88

Watercolour on paper
50.4 x 35.2 cm
Bequeathed by Mrs Thomas Combe, 1893
WA1894.7

Literature: Bronkhurst (2006)
no. d138

Hunt wrote to Mrs Combe on 28 September 1888 that 

The drawing was done in January 1856, but it was brought home with the lower part 
left blank. My dear friend your husband liked it so much that I gave it to him, asking 
him to keep it until I could complete it. When I was in Florence in 1868 on my way East 
Mr Combe brought it out for me to take with me, and I have had it ever since, sometimes 
taking 
the opportunity of advancing my subject a little, but until this spring I was 
never able to take it in hand to finish. I promised it for exhibition to the Royal Society of 
Painters in Water-Colours, but when the time came for delivering it up although I had 
completed all the facts I had not been able to give the complete general effect, and so after 
the exhibition 
this had to be secured by further fastidious study, which was prolonged so 
far that I feared you would almost lose faith in my energy.

His account vividly demonstrates the difficulties in pursuing the true Pre-
Raphaelite principles of painting in minute detail and only in front of the 
subject. It is not surprising that none of the original Brotherhood continued 
in this vein much after 1854. 

The watercolour was begun at the very end of Hunt’s extended excursion to 
the Holy Land, while he was waiting for a steamer to take him to Malta after 
spending about a month at Constantinople. The site is one of two cemeteries in 
Constantinople, either the Petits Champs des Morts in Pera (modern Beyoğlu) 
or the larger one at Eyüp overlooking the Bosphorus. Unlike Lear (cat. 42), who 
found such a scene effortlessly picturesque, for Hunt it was intensely poignant, 
and his watercolour is loaded with symbolism. The doves are symbols of peace, 
perhaps a reaction to the massacres of the Crimean War, while the cedars 
represent timelessness, and the crocuses, the rebirth of spring. This watercolour 
is one of Hunt’s most elaborate. Every element is painstakingly studied, from 
the trunks of the trees to the inscriptions on the tombs and the feathers of the 
pigeons in the foreground. CH 



62

Dante Gabriel Rossetti 1828–1882

Dante drawing an Angel on the Anniversary of Beatrice’s Death, 1853

Watercolour and bodycolour on paper
42 x 61 cm
Signed in monogram and dated: DGR 1853
Bequeathed by Mrs Thomas Combe, 1893
WA1894.16

Literature: Surtees (1971) no. 58; 
Treuherz (2003) no. 42; Harrison and 
Newall (2010) no. 8

Rossetti nurtured a life-long affinity with the work of his namesake, the 
thirteenth-century Florentine poet Dante Alighieri, whose autobiographical 
romance, La Vita Nuova, he translated during the 1840s. He had produced an 
earlier pen and ink drawing on the subject of Dante drawing an angel (1848–9) 
as one of 12 episodes with which he planned to illustrate his translation of the 
poem.1 So intense was Rossetti’s identification with his poetic predecessor that 
the following year he changed his name from Gabriel Charles Dante Rossetti to 
the form by which he would henceforth be known.

This watercolour, the largest and most elaborate that Rossetti had produced 
to date, was commissioned by Francis McCracken, a Belfast cotton-spinner. 
It took over a year to complete. The absorbed poet-artist was modelled by 
Rossetti’s brother William Michael. Dante’s facial features were based on the 
recently discovered supposed portrait of the poet by Giotto, a copy of which was 
sent, along with the poet’s death mask, to Rossetti’s father, Professor of Italian 
Literature at King’s College and a Dante scholar. Realising that he has neglected 
his visitors, Dante rises with the salutation ‘Another was with me’. The highly 
detailed symbolic setting, absent from La Vita Nuova, owes much to paintings 
by Van Eyck and Hans Memling, which Rossetti and Hunt had admired while 
in Bruges in 1849; the mirror recalls Van Eyck’s The Arnolfini Marriage, the first 
‘Primitive’ painting to enter the National Gallery’s collection in 1842. Modelled 
by Elizabeth Siddal (cat. 66), the woman may represent Dante’s future wife, 
Gemma Donati, or the pitying woman who watches him from her window. The 
conflation of these episodes is consistent with Rossetti’s promotion of fidelity of 
spirit over literalness in translation.

Rossetti painstakingly applied the almost dry pigment, giving a deep 
saturation 
of colour quite unlike the effect of traditional watercolour washes, 
but akin to the appearance of medieval manuscript illumination. The figure of 
Dante is preoccupied in producing a drawing by the same means as Rossetti, 
as demonstrated by the flasks of the three primary colours glowing on the 
windowsill. 
While bright sunshine illuminates the landscape of Florence 
beyond, the poet-artist is intent upon depicting Beatrice among the heavenly 
host – not abiding by the Pre-Raphaelite principle of ‘truth to nature’, but 
employing a combination of memory and imagination. The work is a highly 
personal exploration of artistic vocation, so it is unsurprising that when 
Burne-
Jones saw it in Thomas Combe’s collection in 1855 it filled him with 
particular ‘wonder and delight’, and was instrumental in his decision to devote 
himself to art rather than to holy orders.2 KW

1. Birmingham Museums and Art Gallery; 
Surtees (1971) no. 42; Treuherz (2003) no. 11.
2. Burne-Jones (1904) I, p. 110.




63

Sir John Everett Millais 1829–1896

William Holman Hunt, 1854

Black chalk with brown wash on 
cream paper
22 x 17.5 cm
Signed in monogram and dated: 
JEM / 18 x 54
Bequeathed by Mrs Thomas Combe, 1893
WA1893.8

Literature: Funnell (1999) no. 27; 
Rosenfeld and Smith (2007) no. 36

In common with other artistic brotherhoods, notably the Nazarenes, the 
Pre-
Raphaelite Brotherhood made portrait drawings of each other on several 
occasions. For example, Millais drew his friend Charles Allston Collins 
(1828–1873) while they were both staying with Thomas and Martha Combe in 
Oxford in the winter of 1850–1; and Collins reciprocated.1 The Brotherhood 
lasted less than five years: Rossetti never really fitted in, and the departure of 
the sculptor Thomas Woolner in 1853 to seek his fortune in the gold fields of 
Australia broke up the group. On 12 April 1853 the Brothers all made portraits 
of each other to send to Woolner: Millais drew Stephens and vice versa, Hunt 
drew Millais and D. G. Rossetti, D. G. Rossetti drew Hunt and W. M. Rossetti, 
and W. M. Rossetti drew the whole group. When Hunt, who had long been 
hoping to travel to the Holy Land in search of real biblical landscapes and types, 
eventually announced his departure later the same year, the Combes asked 
Millais to make a portrait of him. Millais made a drawing of Hunt in December 
1853, but wrote to Combe that ‘I am so pleased with it, that as I have no other, 
I must keep it for myself, but will copy it for you and send it in the course of a 
week or two. Now that Hunt is going I don’t know what will become of me’.2 
The portrait made for Combe was, in fact, much more successful. It was drawn 
from memory on 8 January 1854, and Millais wrote to Combe on 12 January that 
‘I have made a drawing of Hunt, which I think you will find very like. It is not 
a copy of the one I have got but another I drew on Sunday evening. I will get it 
framed for you (as it would rub sent as it is), and forward it as soon as it is out of 
the framemaker’s hands’. 

Much more informal than contemporary portrait drawings of, for example, 
John Ruskin, this work adopts a similar pose, but is less highly wrought. Hunt 
wears a high collar, long hair parted in the centre and hanging over the ears, 
with well-developed sideburns and beard, giving him an older appearance 
than in the portrait Millais kept for himself. The whole work is very rapidly 
drawn in graphite, 
brown wash applied only in the hair and on the striped 
stock, and accents added on top of the wash in the hair. Nonetheless, it is a very 
vivid portrait of Hunt, the most committed to Pre-Raphaelite ideals of all the 
Brotherhood. CH

1. Both drawings are now in the Ashmolean, 
WA1894.57–8.
2. Now in the National Portrait Gallery, 
NPG 5834.




64

Sir John Everett Millais 1829–1896

Five Illustrations for ‘The Moxon Tennyson’, 1855–7

The Sleeping Palace
Mariana
The Death of the Old Year
St Agnes Eve
The Lord of Burleigh

Pen and ink on paper
8.3 x 9.6 cm, 9.6 x 7.9 cm, 9.7 x 8.4 cm
9.7 x 7.2 cm, and 8.3 x 9.6 cm
Purchased, 1954 and 1958
WA1954.58 and WA1958.53.1–4

Literature: Goldman (2004), no. 5; 
Rosenfeld and Smith (2007) no. 71

Millais’s career as an illustrator was longer and more productive than any of his 
Pre-Raphaelite contemporaries. Lasting from 1852 until 1883, it resulted in over 
three hundred illustrations for a wide variety of books and periodicals. Apart 
from a handful of early etchings, all Millais’s drawings were reproduced by other 
artists, generally as wood engravings, and most often by the firm of Dalziel 
Brothers.

The Moxon Tennyson was conceived by the publisher Edward Moxon to 
rival, indeed to eclipse, the success of William Allingham’s The Music Master 
(1855), illustrated by Rossetti, Millais, and Arthur Hughes. The new edition 
of Tennyson’s poetry, based on the text published in 1842, was to be heavily 
illustrated by established artists such as William Mulready, Daniel Maclise, and 
Thomas Creswick, as well as the more radical members of the Pre-Raphaelite 
Brotherhood. Holman Hunt later remembered that

The greater proportion were in favour of the work done by prominent artists of the old 
school, and their admirers were scandalised by the incorporation of designs by members of 
the Pre-Rapahelite Brotherhood; while our fewer appreciators would not buy the book in 
which the preponderance of work was by artists they did not approve.1 

Millais was the first artist to be approached by Moxon, and he discussed the 
project while visiting Tennyson at Farringford on the Isle of Wight in November 
1854. He provided more designs than either Rossetti or Holman Hunt, 18 in 
total, and they rank with his most accomplished and atmospheric works. These 
highly finished drawings would have been preceded by rough sketches, and it 
has even been suggested that they are not working drawings but repetitions of 
the wood engravings made for sale. They are undoubtedly among the artist’s 
most beguiling creations. On a tiny scale, using the finest of pen nibs, Millais 
has succeeded in evoking not only the details of architecture and dress, but also 
the mood of each poem. His long familiarity with the texts gave him an unerring 
facility in selecting the best lines to illustrate. For Mariana, for example, Millais 
chose the same lines that he had illustrated in one of his first major oils for the 
Royal Academy in 1851 (now in the Tate): ‘‘Then’, she said, ‘I am very dreary, / 
He will not come’, she said; / She wept, ‘I am aweary, aweary, / Oh God, that 
I were dead!’’ 

When Moxon died in 1858, over three-quarters of the print run of his edition 
of Poems by Alfred Tennyson (1857) remained unsold. After the stock had been 
bought by Routledge, however, it quickly sold out, and remains one of the 
greatest of all English illustrated books. CH

1. Quoted in Sanders (2001) p. 78.




65

William Holman Hunt 1827–1910

Thomas Combe, 1860

Red and black chalk on paper
67.6 x 47.9 cm
Signed and dated: Whh /1860 / Oxford
Bequeathed by Mrs Thomas Combe, 1893
WA1894.20

Literature: Bronkhurst (2006) no. D197

Thomas Combe (1796–1872) was the son of a Leicester bookseller. He 
continued 
in that profession in London, Oxford, and Leicester before moving 
permanently to Oxford in 1838 to be superintendent of one division of the 
University Press, the side devoted to ‘learning’, i.e. classical texts. He was 
married to Martha Bennett by John Henry Newman in 1840 and bought his 
first shares in the ‘bible’ side of the Press in the following year. By 1851 he was 
the majority shareholder and relinquished his interest in the ‘learning’ side. The 
Combes were deeply committed to the Tractarian, or High Church, movement, 
and made their first major acquisition as collectors in 1850, when they bought 
Holman Hunt’s A Converted British Family. They subsequently acquired the major 
exhibits by Millais and Charles Allston Collins in 1851, and a Rossetti watercolour 
in 1855, but later concentrated on their patronage of Hunt. In 1853 the 
couple bought Holman Hunt’s The Light of the World (Keble College, Oxford), for 
400 guineas (Combe’s income at this period was over £4,000 a year). All their 
major purchases were bequeathed to the University Galleries, Oxford (now the 
Ashmolean Museum), on the death of Mrs Combe in 1893.

Hunt remained close to the Combes all his life. On a visit to Oxford in 1852, 
he declared that Combe was ‘such a glorious fellow as to be perfectly delightful 
as a companion although 60 years of age, or nearly … I must say that he comes 
more nearly up to my conception of a good practical happy Christian than any 
man ever met by me’.1 Combe acted as Hunt’s banker during his journey to the 
Near East in 1854–6, and he later made regular visits to the quadrangle of the 
University Press, spending Christmas 1859 in Oxford, followed by a summer 
holiday in June 1860, when this portrait was presumably taken. In the following 
year he made a companion portrait of Mrs Combe, which he presented to the 
University Galleries after her death (fig. 46).2

Hunt had made a number of small chalk or pen and ink portraits in the 
early 1850s. However, he later adopted a much broader and grander scale 
in black and coloured chalks, to depict his disciples Edward Lear (1857) and 
Robert Braithwaite Martineau (1860), his patrons Thomas and Martha Combe 
(1860–1), his first and second wives (1866, 1881), and his daughter (1891).3 The 
portrait of Combe is probably the most successful. Combe had grown a beard 
in the late 1850s and was frequently termed ‘the Patriarch’. Hunt shows him 
with abundant grey hair, bushy eyebrows and a full white beard, looking in a 
conspiratorial manner towards the artist or viewer, a man of great character and 
resolution as well as a close friend.

1. Bronkhurst (2006) I, p. 47.
2. Bronkhurst (2006) no. D214.
3. Bronkhurst (2006) nos. D72, D196, D175, 
D214, D242, D246, D348, D385.



Fig. 46 | William Holman Hunt (1827–1910), 
Mrs Thomas Combe, 1861. Red and black chalk. 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, WA1895.11




66

Dante Gabriel Rossetti 1828–1882

Elizabeth Siddal, 1855

Pen and brown and black ink on paper, with 
some scratching out
13 x 11.2 cm
Signed and dated: DGR / Feb. 6 / 1855
Bequeathed by Francis Falconer Madan, 
1962
WA1962.17.77

Literature: Surtees (1971) no. 472; 
Surtees (1991) no. 26; Treuherz (2003) 
no. 28

Born on 25 July 1829 in Hatton Garden, Holborn, Elizabeth ‘Lizzie’ Siddal was 
the daughter of a Sheffield cutler. She entered the Pre-Raphaelite circle around 
1849 or 1850, having been spotted by Walter Deverell working in a milliner’s 
shop near Leicester Square. Rossetti would later remark that having met her 
he ‘felt his destiny was defined’.1 Siddal initially modelled for a number of 
Pre-Raphaelite artists, including Holman Hunt and Millais, but from 1852 she 
sat exclusively to Rossetti, becoming both his muse and pupil, and eventually 
in 1860 his wife. Siddal suffered protracted periods of ill health and emotional 
upheaval, partly owing to Rossetti’s apparent infidelities. She gave birth to a 
still-born daughter in 1861 and died from an overdose of laudanum in 1862.

Fifty-eight drawings by Rossetti of Siddal survive, all created in the period 
1850–61 (although none from October 1856 to 1860, during which time the 
couple were partially estranged). In 1854 Ford Madox Brown, Rossetti’s 
former teacher and mentor, recorded after a visit to the artist that Rossetti had 
a drawer filled with studies of the lovely ‘Guggums’ (one of several pet names 
by which Siddal was known) ‘each one a fresh charm, each one stamped with 
immortality’, exclaiming ‘God knows how many, it is like a monomania with 
him’.2 With her queenly physique, dreamy expressive eyes and heavy, copper-red 
hair, Siddal’s appearance became a keynote in the Pre-Raphaelite articulation 
of female beauty. However, she was not merely an object of desire and reverence 
but had latent talent as an artist and poet in her own right. In April 1855 John 
Ruskin bestowed on Siddal an annual sum of £150 in return for all of the 
work that she produced, and he encouraged her in 1857 to attend art classes in 
Sheffield. Several of her works were shown in the Pre-Raphaelite exhibition at 
Russell Place that same year.

Of all Rossetti’s drawings of Siddal, this most poignantly captures both 
the sitter’s evasive melancholy and the artist’s tender response to her delicate 
beauty. Unusually she is shown full-face, although with her eyes typically downcast. 
The gleam of gaslight from the right, achieved by scraping away the inked 
surface, accentuates the lustre of the sitter’s hair and casts half of her expression 
into shadow, epitomising her reserved and enigmatic character. KW

1. Treuherz (2003) p. 37.
2. Surtees (1991) pp. 101 and 148.



Fig. 47 | Dante Gabriel Rossetti (1828–1882), 
Elizabeth Siddal, 1854. Watercolour on wove paper. 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, WA2011.57




67

Dante Gabriel Rossetti 1828–1882

Louisa Ruth Herbert, 1858

Graphite on wove paper
framed as an oval
50.8 x 43 cm (frame)
Inscribed: Ruth Herbert / 1858 / DGR delt 
Presented by Virginia Surtees, 2014
WA2014.38

Literature: Surtees (1971) no. 325

Miss Herbert made her official debut in London at the Strand Theatre in 
October 1855. Rossetti discovered her in February 1856 at the Olympic Theatre 
and captivated by beauty, made a quick sketch, which he annotated ‘Stunner 
No I’.1 Two years later, he wrote excitedly from his studio at 14 Chatham Place, 
Blackfriars to William Bell Scott, ‘I am in the stunning position this morning of 
expecting the actual visit, at ½ past 11, of a model whom I have been longing to 
paint for years – Miss Herbert of the Olympic Theatre – who has the most varied 
and highest expression I ever saw in a woman’s face, besides abundant beauty, 
golden hair etc. … O my eye she will sit to me for Mary Magdalene in that 
picture I am beginning. Such luck!’2 

Known to Rossetti as Ruth Herbert, although formally Mrs Crabbe, the 
actress embodied a type of female beauty that would dominate Rossetti’s 
work in the 1860s, one quite distinct from that of the imperious but fragile 
Lizzie Siddal. Her glorious hair, frequently mentioned by contemporary 
theatrical reviewers, is depicted with alluring softness in Rossetti’s portrait. The 
undulating 
waves of her coiffure are echoed with great subtlety by the modelling 
of her throat, the ripples of her simple collar and the sensual curve of her lips. 
The earrings, ubiquitous in her portraits, are used to great dramatic effect in the 
gesture of their removal in Rossetti’s Mary Magdalene at the Door of the House of 
Simon (completed 1859).3 The profession of actress was synonymous with that of 
courtesan in Victorian society, and Miss Herbert’s marital status the source of 
considerable complication, making the casting particularly apt. 

Rossetti’s fervent and contradictory reverence for her is encapsulated by the 
inscription he gave to one of his watercolours, ‘BEATRICE HELEN GUENEVERE 
HERBERT’.4 The quality of Miss Herbert’s appearance was such that the artists 
gathered around the hospitability of Mrs Prinsep, at Little Holland House, 
would admire her as though she were, in her own later words, ‘a holy thing’.5 
Ruskin urged Rossetti to use her for his altarpiece The Seed of David at Llandaff 
Cathedral, although in 1861, her features were supplanted in this painting by 
those of Jane Morris, whose husband William sat for the figure of David.

In exchange for sittings over the course of about a year, Rossetti made 
portraits of Miss Herbert, and 17 such works were in her possession at the time 
of her death. This particular drawing served as an illustration to Georgiana 
Burne-Jones’s biography of her husband, Edward, published in 1904. It was 
recently given to the Ashmolean by the sitter’s great grand-daughter. KW

1. Surtees (1997) p. 22.
2. Surtees (1997) p. 35.
3. Surtees (1997) no. 109.
4. Surtees (1971) no. 335.
5. Marsh (1999) pp. 193–4.




68

Dante Gabriel Rossetti 1828–1882

Proserpine, 1871

Pastel on two sheets of paper
97 x 46 cm
Signed in monogram and dated: DGR 1871
Bequeathed by May Morris, 1939
WA1939.5

Literature: Surtees (1971) no. 233A; 
Cruise (2012) no. 286

Of all Rossetti’s ‘stunners’, the features of Jane Morris recur in his work with the 
greatest intensity. Over 25 years the artist would portray her more than 40 times 
– both as ‘herself’, in formal and informal portraits, and in the guise of mythical, 
historical, and literary characters from Dante to classical legend.

Rossetti first met Jane Burden in 1857, while in Oxford working on the 
sequence of murals for the interior of the new Union Library. She would be cast, 
with uncanny prescience, in the role of Guinevere, while Burne-Jones modelled 
Launcelot in Rossetti’s Launcelot at the Chapel of the San Graal. Jane married 
William Morris in 1859 but by late 1869 Jane and Rossetti were intimately 
involved, and her image came to dominate his work. Writing to her in February 
1870 he declared, ‘No-one seems alive at all to me now, and places that are 
empty of you are empty of all life’.1

Between 1871 and 1877 Rossetti produced at least eight oil paintings of Jane 
as Proserpine, along with numerous other versions on paper in various media. 
This work was probably executed during the first idyllic summer that Jane and 
Rossetti spent together at Kelmscott Manor, near Lechlade in Oxfordshire, 
while William Morris magnanimously travelled in Iceland. The drawing 
remained in Jane’s possession, and was bequeathed to the Ashmolean by her 
daughter May in accordance with her mother’s wishes.

The subject of Proserpine abducted to the Underworld and trapped there 
for half of every year has clear resonances with the triangular relationship 
of Morris, Jane, and Rossetti. Yet the imposing, monumental stature of the 
brooding 
figure, together with the sonnets in Italian and in English that 
Rossetti inscribed on to other versions of the composition, make it clear 
that Proserpine is an exploration of death, hope, and the imagination. While 
her consumption of the pomegranate partially condemns Proserpine to 
the Underworld, in Christian symbolism the fruit was an emblem of the 
Resurrection. The light in the background is thus not only a tantalising glimmer 
from the (for now) unattainable world above, but a possible suggestion of hope. 
This tale of opposing halves is replicated in the construction of the drawing 
from two pieces of paper, chamfered together, as well as the contrasting 
articulation of surfaces in the work. The figure’s flesh is conveyed in rich blended 
pastel, distinct from the background and folds of her green-blue silk robe, which 
are swiftly worked in free, individually discernible strokes. The enduring power 
of the image derives from its ability to encompass both a personal and a primal 
meaning, encouraging wide-ranging meditation in the viewer. KW

1. Quoted in Spencer-Longhurst (2000) p. 25.




69

Emily Mary Osborn 1828–1925

Study for ‘Nameless and Friendless’, c. 1857

Black and red chalk heightened with white 
on buff paper
80 x 72 cm
Inscribed: Millais, 1854 
Purchased, 1965
WA1965.60

Literature: Cherry (1987) pl. 10, 
pp. 78–81

This drawing is a finished study for the painting Nameless and Friendless, 
exhibited 
at the Royal Academy in 1857 and the International Exhibition 
in 1862.1 It incorporates a ruled perspective construction related to the full 
composition, 
and scored lines are visible throughout, following the main 
outlines. This indicates that it was probably traced for transfer using a stylus, 
so it is likely to have been used as a cartoon for the final painting. The work 
shows a young woman standing; she nervously winds a length of string around 
her fingers 
as a corpulent dealer considers her work. Next to her stands a boy, 
probably 
a younger brother for whom she has responsibility, clutching a portfolio 
of drawings. The young boy, in particular, is beautifully drawn, the delicate 
red in his ear indicating his exposure to the elements. It has been suggested that 
the image is based on the novel Self-Control by Mary Brunton (1810, reprinted 
1855), but the similar incidents described in chapter IX of the book make no 
mention of this boy. 

In the finished painting we see two top-hatted gentlemen, and a well-dressed 
woman leaving the shop followed by a servant. They clearly illustrate the 
contrast 
between wealth and poverty underlined by the lines from Proverbs 
(10.15), which were attached to the painting in the Royal Academy catalogue: 
‘The rich man’s wealth is his strong city: the destruction of the poor is their 
poverty.’ The painting called attention to the difficulties faced by respectable 
middle-class women forced to make a living through their art in a society that 
frowned on their participation in the marketplace. The distressed gentlewoman 
– struggling to survive as a governess, writer or dressmaker – was a familiar 
figure in the art and literature of this period, and the ‘Woman Question’ would 
continue to be debated for much of the century. The year 1857 also marked the 
formation of the Society of Female Artists, designed to support such women. 
Osborn became a member of the Society, and in 1859 signed a petition calling 
for women to be admitted to the Royal Academy Schools.2

Osborn pursued a highly successful career as a genre and landscape painter. 
The daughter of a clergyman, she trained at James Leigh’s drawing school in 
London and exhibited widely. Two of her paintings were purchased by Queen 
Victoria, and Nameless and Friendless sold for £250. Through such lucrative sales, 
Osborn financed her own studio. Several of her works demonstrate ‘protest in 
favour of the afflicted and down-trodden classes’.3 Half the World Knows not how 
the Other Half Lives was awarded a prize at the Crystal Palace exhibition of 1864 
as the best figure subject in oil by any British artist. CP

1. An oil sketch for the full composition is in York 
City Art Gallery (YORAG 1483).
2. Charlotte Yeldham, ‘Osborn, Emily Mary 
(1828–1925)’, Oxford Dictionary of National 
Biography (2004), http://www.oxforddnb.com/
view/article/48916, accessed 6 January 2015.
3. The Queen, 4 December 1880, p. 501.



Fig. 48 | Emily Mary Osborn (1834–1925), 
Nameless and Friendless, 1857. Oil on canvas. Tate, 
London, T12936 © Tate, London 2014




70

Ford Madox Brown 1821–1893

The Nosegay, 1865

Watercolour and oil on paper
47.5 x 31.9 cm
Signed in monogram: FMB
Presented by Mrs W. F. R. Weldon, 1933
WA1933.5

Literature: Bennett (2010) no. A84; 
Treuherz (2011) no. 93

Ford Madox Brown was never a member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, 
indeed never suggested as a member, though he was closely associated with 
them in the 1850s. Unlike his younger friends, he enjoyed a cosmopolitan 
education, studying at the Academies in Bruges, Ghent, and Antwerp, and then 
in Rome, where he worked out his first masterpiece, the huge Geoffrey Chaucer 
Reading the ‘Legend of Custance’ to Edward III and his Court (1847–51).1 For a brief 
period in the 1860s he produced a number of Aesthetic subjects, female figures 
with little narrative content, in emulation of Dante Gabriel Rossetti’s Bocca 
Bacciata (1859; Museum of Fine Arts, Boston). 

In 1865 Brown held a one-man exhibition at 196 Piccadilly, where he came 
to the attention of the Manchester collector, Frederick Craven (1818–1895). 
Through the intermediary of Rossetti, Craven commissioned from Brown 
a pendant to a watercolour by William Henry Hunt of A Boy Praying (now 
in Manchester City Art Gallery), of ‘a golden headed female party’.2 Brown 
considered 
and rejected the possibility of making a watercolour repetition of an 
earlier subject, and noted that ‘the subject of “The Nosegay” on the other hand 
being not as yet fixed in any way, I could make it accord more perfectly as to 
size of figure and general proportions with Hunt’s design, without thinking of 
giving up my own feelings or style’.3 

The model for the figure was Brown’s daughter Cathy (born in 1850), 
and the setting the garden of their home at Grove Terrace, Kentish Town. 
According to his diary, the artist worked most intensively on the subject in 
the autumn months of 1865, finishing it on 25 October. A smaller watercolour 
was completed 
at much the same time and, though generally described as a 
sketch, is more probably a repetition.4 The subject is a comely young woman in 
white holding a large bouquet of garden flowers, with a cat nuzzling at her legs 
through her skirt. The high garden wall appears in many early Pre-Raphaelite 
paintings, and derives from the medieval concept of the hortus conclusus. 

Craven was initially pleased with The Nosegay, finding it a ‘very charming 
work’.5 In 1868, however, he decided to offer it back to Brown, having persuaded 
himself that the artist’s more high-minded history subjects would suit him 
better – he later bought versions of Elijah and Cordelia. Nevertheless, Brown 
managed to sell the work easily to the great Pre-Raphaelite collector, William 
Graham (cat. 75). CH

1. Art Gallery of New South Wales; Bennett 
(2010) no. A40.
2. Bennett (2010) I, p. 221.
3. Ibid.
4. Lady Lever Art Gallery, Port Sunlight; Bennett 
(2010) no. A84a.
5. Bennett (2010) I, p. 222.




71

Sir Edward Coley Burne-Jones 1833–1898

The Knight’s Farewell, 1858

Pen and black ink over graphite on vellum 
17.6 x 24.2 cm
Signed in monogram and dated: EBJ 1858 
Inscribed: ROMAN / Du Queste / du / 
SADGRAIL
Bequeathed by John Bryson, 1977
WA1977.34

Literature: Arts Council (1975–6) 
no. 12; Wildman and Christian (1998) no. 5; 
Prettejohn (2000) p. 103

In 1855 Burne-Jones discovered a copy of Southey’s edition (1817) of Sir Thomas 
Malory’s Le Morte d’Arthur (1485). He was unable to afford the purchase, 
however, and his friend and fellow student at Exeter College, Oxford, William 
Morris, acquired the book. So began Burne-Jones’s life-long exploration of 
Arthurian romance and the Legend of the San Grael in particular – an affinity he 
shared with Morris, who later purchased The Knight’s Farewell. The following 
year Burne-Jones met Rossetti and subsequently left Oxford to study under him 
in London.

Prevented by fragile health in the late 1850s from working in oils, 
Burne-
Jones produced a series of fine, densely worked pen and ink drawings 
inspired by medieval chivalry; all were on the theme of the departure for 
battle. Familiar with the medium from his earlier illustrations for Archibald 
Maclaren’s Fairy Family (1854–6), he now refined his technique, having encountered 
Rossetti’s drawings. Rossetti in turn described Burne-Jones’s drawings 
to William Bell Scott as ‘marvels in finish and imaginative detail, unequalled 
by anything except perhaps Albert Dürer’s work’.1 Through Rossetti, in 1856 
Burne-Jones was introduced to John Ruskin, who in The Elements of Drawing 
(1857) recommended Dürer’s engravings as models for pen and ink drawing. 
In all likelihood Ruskin lent the young Burne-Jones examples of Dürer’s prints 
from his own collection.

Burne-Jones spent the summer of 1858 at Little Holland House, whose 
grounds his widow, Georgiana, later described as an ‘enchanted circle’; and 
at Summertown near Oxford, where her husband read aloud from Malory 
in the garden.2 The composition and stylised figures of The Knight’s Farewell 
owe much to Rossetti’s ‘Froissartian’ watercolours. However, the enclosed 
space in the foreground where an anguished male figure is comforted, as 
well as the suggestion 
of violent action confined to a narrow strip above, 
also resemble Hunt’s A Converted British Family (1850; Ashmolean Museum), 
which Burne-
Jones had seen when he visited Thomas Combe in 1855 (cat. 65). 
The inclination of the woman’s head recalls Siddal’s Lady Clare (c. 1854–7; 
private collection).

The vellum support imitates the medieval manuscripts that Burne-Jones and 
Morris had admired in the Bodleian Library, while the drawing is painstakingly 
executed with a metal pen, over indications in graphite which glint in the outline 
of the figures. Elaborate patterns and curious details, such as the shadow of the 
dove swooping in front of the knight’s pennant, crowd the entire surface. The 
obsessive articulation of textures includes the technique of scratching out to 
soften some elements, such as the contours of the facial features. The viewer 
is encouraged to linger intently over the meticulous details yet the narrative 
remains enigmatic, with the principal figure’s face hidden from sight. KW

1. Fredeman (2002) II, p. 171.
2. Burne-Jones (1904) I, pp. 181 and 183.




72

Arthur Hughes 1832–1915

The Knight of the Sun, 1860–1

Watercolour and bodycolour on paper
22.3 x 31.6 cm
Signed: A HUGHES
Presented by Mrs Reginald Cripps, 1949
WA1949.189

Literature: Brown (1987) no. 32; 
Roberts and Wildman (1997) no. 43.8 

Like the members of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, Hughes studied at the 
Royal Academy Schools, but always claimed that his life had been changed by an 
issue of The Germ which included a ‘strangely interesting and pathetic etching’ by 
Holman Hunt and a ‘quaint but inspiring sonnet’ by William Michael Rossetti.1 
He soon became an associate of the Pre-Raphaelites, and participated in the 
decoration of the Oxford Union in 1857, painting The Passing of King Arthur. 

The experience encouraged Hughes to explore medieval subjects, and he 
exhibited The Knight of the Sun at the Royal Academy in 1860, where the title 
was appended in the catalogue with lines from George Macdonald’s poem 
‘Better Things’: ‘Better a death when work is done / Than earth’s most favoured 
birth’.2 According to the artist, ‘a study of the sky reflecting river seen thro’ a 
wild cherry tree autumn turned … gave me the idea first for the subject’.3 He 
later described the scene as ‘an aged warrior mortally wounded, being carried 
by his men-
at-arms to the shelter of a religious house’; though F. G. Stephens 
explained that ‘The Knight of the Sun illustrates a legend, an incident of which 
declared how an old knight, whose badge was a sun, and who had led a Christian 
life throughout his career, was borne out of his castle to see, for the last time, the 
setting of the luminary he loved’.4 

This watercolour was painted for Benjamin Godfrey Windus, probably soon 
after the oil was exhibited. The knight in armour is draped in red, and carried 
by three of his warriors. Behind him a page carries his shield, blazoned with 
the emblem of the sun, and his horse and two other warriors bring up the rear. 
The setting sun shines most strongly on the knight’s face, and is reflected in the 
river on the right, a symbol of the passing of life. The landscape is painted with 
Pre-Raphaelite detail, each leaf of the autumn trees, the fallen twigs and boughs, 
carefully delineated. The richness of the colouring owes much to Rossetti’s 
watercolours, though the strong but subtle lighting reflects Hughes’s technique 
in oils, with clear outlines and defined masses. CH

1. Quoted in Roberts and Wildman (1997) 
pp. 12–3.
2. Lord Lloyd-Webber; Roberts and Wildman 
(1997) no. 43.
3. Quoted in Roberts and Wildman (1997) p. 146.
4. Ibid.




73

Arthur Hughes 1832–1915

The Dial, 1870

Pen and Indian ink over graphite on card 
23.4 x 17.5 cm
Signed in monogram: AH
Presented by Charles Emanuel, 1950
WA1950.178.263

Literature: Roberts and Wildman (1997) 
no. 23.3

Arthur Hughes occupies a distinguished place within the extraordinary 
flowering of book illustrators in the 1860s. The historian of the movement, 
the novelist Forrest Reid (1875–1947), wrote that although he never became a 
‘first-rate draughtsman … he had what is rarer than clever draughtsmanship, a 
spark of genius, and a personal charm so persuasive that it goes far to make up 
for a somewhat wobbly technique’.1 His earliest success in this genre came with 
the illustrations to William Allingham’s The Music Master in 1854, but it was not 
until the next decade that he produced his best work. Reid reserved a special 
admiration for Hughes’s illustrations for Good Words for the Young, to which 
he contributed 231 drawings over five years, as well as the cover design for the 
issue of November 1870. This periodical was founded in 1868 by the evangelical 
Scottish publisher, Alexander Strahan, offering a junior version of the most 
popular magazine of the period, Good Words. The plates to George MacDonald’s 
‘At the back of the north wind’ (1868–70) are generally considered the high point 
of Hughes’s career as an illustrator, although his earlier designs for the same 
author’s ‘Dealing with fairies’, and in particular Thomas Hughes’s Tom Brown’s 
Schooldays (1867–8), for which he produced 43 illustrations, are also well known.

Hughes first worked for the parent publication, Good Words, in 1864. In 1871 
he produced what Reid described as ‘four drawings in his best manner’.2 Three 
of these were made for an illustrated edition of Tennyson’s Loves of the Wrens 
(Sullivan supplying the music), and it was only after the cantankerous poet had 
discovered that he did not really want illustrations that the pictures were cut 
down and issued in Good Words.3 Tennyson’s ‘The Window; or, the Songs of the 
Wrens’ was published in Good Words in January–March 1871, but only two of 
Hughes’s designs were used. 

This famous drawing was originally intended as an illustration to Tennyson’s 
‘The Window’, but was published by Strahan to accompany lines from a poem 
by F. W. Simmons: ‘She pluckt a rose with tender care; Brooding she panted o’er 
the flower; The sunlight toucht her golden hair, and mark’d the hour.’ A pair of 
lovers, perhaps modelled on William and Jane Morris, are seen dallying over a 
sundial in a luxuriant country garden in high summer. The motif of the sundial 
was a favourite with Victorian illustrators, who used it to denote the transitory 
nature of human existence. The drawing shows nothing of the ‘wobbly 
technique’ 
noted by Reid, but rather demonstrates Hughes’s complete mastery 
of the pen. CH

1. Reid (1928) p. 84.
2. Reid (1928) pp. 86–7.
3. Ibid.




74

Sir Edward Poynter 1836–1919 

Study of a Man holding a Spear and a Shield, and a Study of a Leg, ?1869

Brown chalk on green paper
35.4 x 25.2 cm
Stamped in black ink at centre: EJP
Dated 1871. Inscribed: Study for medal for 
Ashanti War
Presented by Miss Clarissa C. Bell, 1971
WA1971.33

Although he established his reputation in 1867 with the huge painting of 
Israel in Egypt (Guildhall Art Gallery), Poynter had even earlier become known 
as a designer for the decorative arts. He received his first commissions for 
decorated 
furniture and stained glass when he was a student in Paris in the late 
1850s, and he continued to make designs for stained glass after his return to 
London in 1860, notably for the firm of James Powell of Whitefriars. He later 
designed large decorative schemes for the Victoria and Albert Museum, the 
Royal Albert Hall, and the Palace of Westminster.

This drawing is a study for a medal awarded to the best shot in the British 
army, instituted in 1869 as the Queen’s Medal and awarded annually until it 
was discontinued in 1883. The reverse shows the portrait of Queen Victoria, 
while the obverse has a nude archer holding a target shot with three arrows, 
being crowned with a laurel wreath by the female personification of Victory. 
Poynter’s technique owes much to his training in the studio of Charles Gleyre 
(1806–1874) in Paris, and from his particular interest in Michelangelo, both as a 
draughtsman and a sculptor. The traditional medium favoured by the Academy, 
reddish brown chalk, is applied with great sensitivity, describing the contours 
and volumes, with white used discreetly for highlights. The separate study of 
the right leg is reminiscent of drawings by Michelangelo which Poynter might 
have seen in Oxford or exhibited in London. At this stage, he had apparently 
envisaged the composition simply including the single figure of the archer, as 
the subsidiary study of the medal at the top left of the sheet makes clear. 

Poynter later designed the medal awarded in the first Ashanti War, a much 
more compact composition of Roman soldiers attacking tribesmen in the bush 
of the Ashanti Confederacy, for which several preparatory drawings survive.1 
The inscription on the Ashmolean drawing mistakenly associates it with this 
project, and the date was probably added much later and may be erroneous. He 
went on to participate in the revival of the artistic medal which flourished under 
the immigrant French artist, Alphonse Legros (1837–1911), who made his first 
design in 1881 and whose influence culminated in the foundation of the Society 
of Medallists in 1885. CH

1. See Bell (1905) plates IX, XI.


Fig. 49 | Sir Edward John Poynter (1836–1919), 
Army Best Shots Medal or Queen’s Medal, 1877. Silver. 
Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge, CM.1150–2009 
© Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge




75

Sir Edward Coley Burne-Jones 1833–1898 

The Garden Poisoned, 1875

Graphite on paper
24.6 x 24.4 cm
Signed and dated: EBJ 1875
Bequeathed by Sir Philip Burne-Jones, 1926
WA1926.24

Literature: Wildman and Christian 
(1998) no. 126

Soon after the inception of Morris Marshall Faulkner and Company in 1861, 
Burne-Jones, a friend of William Morris’s from their undergraduate days at 
Exeter College, Oxford, became the principal designer. His main role was 
to provide designs for figure subjects for stained glass and tiles, and later 
embroideries and tapestries. He also turned his hand to jewellery, costumes 
and set designs for the theatre, and even a pair of shoes. Yet for much of his life, 
Burne-Jones yearned for a commission to decorate a grand piano. Indeed, in 
1878 he designed a wholly new shape of piano, with straight rather than bulbous 
lines and plain rather than turned legs. As he wrote to Kate Faulkner, ‘I have 
been wanting for years to reform pianos since they are as it were the very altar of 
homes, and a second hearth to people’.1

In his record of work for 1872, Burne-Jones noted that he had ‘designed the 
story of Orpheus’. This entry is generally associated with the 11 drawings dated 
1875 now in the Ashmolean. They illustrate an unpublished poem by William 
Morris, The Story of Orpheus and Eurydice, retelling the Greek myth. In 1879 
the designs were painted on to a piano commissioned by Burne-Jones’s great 
Scottish patron, William Graham, for his daughter, Frances. The outside of 
the lid features the figure of a poet and muse, while the inside has one of the 
artist’s most exuberant designs, Terra Omnipotens (Mother Earth) and 21 putti 
clambering 
on the tendrils of an extravagant vine. 

Covering the sides are the roundels telling the story of Orpheus, painted in 
grisaille. Burne-Jones’s episodes are entitled The Garden, The Garden Poisoned, 
The Gates of Hell, The Doorkeeper, Across the Flames, The House of Pluto, The Regained 
Lost (three designs), and The Death of Orpheus. The Garden Poisoned shows 
Eurydice dying in the arms of her husband, having been bitten by a snake, 
precipitating the tragedy of their eternal separation. The drawings are among 
Burne-Jones’s most exquisite creations, demonstrating his consummate 
mastery of graphite. Every fold in the diaphanous draperies is rendered with the 
utmost subtlety, and the compositions fit perfectly into the roundels. CH 

1. Quoted in Wildman 
and Christian (1998) 
p. 276



Fig. 50 | Sir Edward Coley 
Burne-Jones (1833–1898), 
‘Orpheus’ or ‘Graham’ piano, 
1879–80. Painted wood. 
Private Collection
Fig. 51 | Detail of ‘Orpheus’ 
or ‘Graham’ piano, showing 
The Garden Poisoned




76

Sir Edward Coley Burne-Jones 1833–1898

Antonia, 1877

Silverpoint, graphite and bodycolour 
on paper with a grey prepared ground
32 x 15.2 cm
Inscribed: ANTONIA. Signed and dated: 
EB-J / 1877. Inscribed: to HMG
Presented by Mrs Helen Mary Gaskell, 1939
WA1939.15.2

Literature: Arts Council (1975–6) 
no. 139; Wildman and Christian (1998) 
no. 110

Having returned from his third trip to Italy in 1871, a visit made in the wake 
of his affair with Maria Zambaco, Burne-Jones conceived an impressive 
array of designs for paintings. Among them was The Golden Stairs, for which 
this drawing 
is a study. The painting was finally completed in 1880 under 
considerable 
pressure; Burne-Jones’s wife Georgiana reported in her diary 
that: ‘The picture is finished, and so is the painter almost. He never was so 
pushed for time in his life.’1 The painting was the artist’s only submission for 
exhibition at the Grosvenor Gallery that year, and proved both enduringly 
popular and immensely influential.

The figure is that of Antonia Caiva, a professional model frequently 
employed by Burne-Jones. She sat for each of the figures in The Golden Stairs, 
as well as for many other eminent Victorian artists, including Burne-Jones’s 
brother-in-law, Edward Poynter. This particular study is for the girl at the 
bottom left of the painting who holds the cymbals. Her head was modelled 
by a young woman for whom Burne-Jones had an intense affection, Frances 
Graham, daughter of the Glasgow MP William Graham, one of the artist’s most 
significant patrons (cat. 75). 

Burne-Jones had received scant formal artistic training. From the mid-
1860s, seeking to improve his draughtsmanship, he adopted the academic 
practice of making nude studies for the figures in his paintings. However, 
this example is unusual in employing silverpoint, in direct emulation 
of Quattrocento Florentine drawings, of which Burne-Jones collected 
photographic 
reproductions with particular assiduity following his time 
in Italy. The other surviving studies for The Golden Stairs, including those of 
the hands with cymbals, and the feet of this figure (Fitzwilliam Museum, 
Cambridge), are executed solely in hard graphite. This imitates the precise 
quality of silverpoint, but allows for easier erasure.

This work was given by the artist to Helen Mary ‘May’ Gaskell as a birthday 
gift. After allowing his intimate friend and confidante to select a drawing from 
his portfolio, Burne-Jones reportedly remarked at her choice, ‘Ah, my dear, you 
have chosen the finest drawing I have ever done’.2 Slight alterations are visible 
in the line of the right shoulder, the bend of the right arm and knee, as well as 
the placement of the ear. Yet these do nothing to detract from the exquisite 
contrapposto grace of the figure, enlivened by white highlights, which articulate 
delicate details as well as the play of light over the cool sculptural contours of 
the body. KW

1. Burne-Jones (1904) I, p. 103.
2. Dimbleby (2004) p. 257.


Fig. 52 | Sir Edward Coley Burne-Jones 
(1833–1898), The Golden Stairs, 1880. Oil on canvas. 
Tate, London, N04005 © Tate, London 2014




77

Sir Edward Coley Burne-Jones 1833–1898

Studies for ‘The Wheel of Fortune’ from a sketchbook of figure and drapery studies, c. 1882–3

Graphite on paper, in a cream clothbound 
sketchbook of 21 folios
26.7 x 15.3 cm (sheet); 27.6 x 16.2 x 1.7 cm 
(volume), open at fol. 13
Inscribed by the artist’s son: Study for ‘Fortune’ 
and for ‘Fortune’. Front cover inscribed by the 
artist: XVIII
Presented by Sir Philip Burne-Jones and Mrs 
J. W. Mackail, children of the artist, 1920
WA1920.55

Literature: Arts Council (1975) no. 125

During his third visit to Italy in 1871, Burne-Jones fell comprehensively under 
the spell of Michelangelo. To study the Sistine Chapel frescoes he ‘bought the 
best opera glasses he could find, folded his railway rug thickly, and lying down 
on his back, read the ceiling from beginning to end, peering into every corner 
and revelling in its execution’.1 Galvanised, once home he began working on a 
range of new designs including The Troy Triptych (1870–98), inspired by the form 
of Italian Renaissance altarpieces.2 The predella was divided by four figures, 
Fortune appearing at the far left.3 

According to his son, Fortune was the artist’s favourite design. He produced 
at least six painted versions, of which the largest and most compelling is now 
in the Museé d’Orsay; it was exhibited at the Grosvenor Gallery in 1883 and 
bought by the future Prime Minister, Arthur Balfour.4 This sketchbook contains 
16 studies for Fortune, exploring different dispositions of drapery; the knot of 
fabric depicted here is closer to the other versions of the composition than to 
the canvas of 1883. The cap in that version was designed by Mrs Comyns Carr, 
wife of one of the directors of the Grosvenor Gallery, who also devised several 
costumes for the actress Ellen Terry. Here, however, the head-scarf derives from 
the example of Michelangelo’s Sistine Sibyls and the elaborate coiffures of his 
drawings of Ideal Heads. By contrast, the intricate folds of the costume owe much 
to the work of Botticelli. Burne-Jones consummately articulates not only the 
exquisitely creased drapery, but the powerful presence of the body beneath. 

Burne-Jones’s graceful costumes were frequently provided by Aglaia Coronio 
(neé Ionides), a cousin of Maria Zambaco, the woman with whom he had an 
intense affair in the late 1860s. They recall the free-flowing dresses favoured by 
the women of the Pre-Raphaelite circle, in contrast to conventional Victorian 
fashions. In William Morris’s utopian News from Nowhere (1890), he approvingly 
described women ‘decently veiled with drapery, … clothed like women, 
not upholstered like arm-chairs, as most women of our time are’, dressed in 
something between ‘ancient classical costume and the simpler forms of the 
fourteenth-
century garments, though … not an imitation of either’.5 

This marriage of the classical and the medieval is similarly evident in the 
self-conscious presentation in this sketchbook of a series of anatomical 
drawings 
in ochre chalk, as well as further studies in graphite for The Morning 
of the Resurrection (1883–6) and The Sleep of Arthur in Avalon (1881–8).6 In March 
1893 Burne-Jones described himself as broken on Fortune’s wheel, yet together, 
these three paintings characterise his work as profoundly spiritual rather than 
simply pessimistic.7

1. Burne-Jones (1904) II, p. 26.
2. Unfinished; Birmingham Museums and Art 
Gallery. Wildman and Christian (1998) no. 50. 
3. The remaining three figures were Fame, Love, 
and Oblivion.
4. Other versions of The Wheel of Fortune: Cecil 
French Bequest, Hammersmith; National Gallery 
of Victoria, Australia; Tullie House Museum, 
Carlisle; National Museum of Wales, Cardiff; 
ex-Watts Gallery, Compton.
5. Morris, ed. Wilmer (1993) p. 53.
6. Tate and Museo del Arte de Ponce, 
Puerto Rico.
7. Letter to Helen Mary Gaskell, quoted in 
Wildman and Christian (1998) p. 155.


Fig. 53 | Sir Edward Coley Burne-Jones 
(1833–1898), The Wheel of Fortune, 1875–83. Oil on 
canvas. Museé d’Orsay, Paris © Museé d’Orsay, 
Paris, France / Bridgeman Images 




78

Sir Edward Coley Burne-Jones 1833–1898

Study for ‘The Depths of the Sea’ from an album of 48 drawings, 1884–8

Watercolour and bodycolour on paper
22.3 x 9.8 cm
Album bound in dark brown leather, tooled 
and gilded, 37.1 x 27.7 x 4.5 cm, open at 
fol. 48
Presented by Helen Mary Gaskell, 1939
WA1939.9.48

Literature: Harrison and Waters (1973) 
pp. 140 and 142

In June 1885 Burne-Jones was unexpectedly elected an Associate of the Royal 
Academy of Arts, and the following year exhibited his haunting submarine 
painting, The Depths of the Sea.1 This was the only work that Burne-Jones displayed 
at the Academy and he resigned in 1893, having repeatedly failed to gain 
full membership. 

The poet, Gerard Manley Hopkins described The Depths of the Sea as ‘the 
stroke of true artistic genius’.2 F. G. Stephens praised its charming colour but 
criticised the weak anatomy of the male figure, observations that are equally 
relevant to this vibrant study. In the finished painting Burne-Jones enhanced 
the plunging motion of the figures, conjoining the pair more tightly, with 
the mermaid’s hair streaming above her head. She looks towards the viewer 
with a glance as mesmerising as it is mysterious. However, in this drawing her 
imploring 
gaze recalls the controversial Phyllis and Demophoön (1870), the work 
that had precipitated Burne-Jones’s resignation from the Old Water-Colour 
Society.3 Intriguingly, the year in which he exhibited The Depths of the Sea also 
witnessed his re-election to this institution.

Burne-Jones’s preoccupation with mermaids is usually dated from his 
purchase of the property he named North End House, in Rottingdean, near 
Brighton, in 1880. Indeed, a room in the house was designated ‘The Mermaid 
Inn’. In the early 1880s he produced a number of pictures of merfolk, often with 
a humorous or maternal aspect, but another study from the Gaskell Album 
shows a nude male clinging to a cluster of coral, vigorously resisting a mermaid’s 
grasp.4 In fact the dangerously ambiguous nature of mermaids featured in 
Maclaren’s Fairy Family (1857), for which Burne-Jones had provided his earliest 
commissioned illustrations. 

The astonishing versatility of Burne-Jones’s draughtsmanship, unceasingly 
experimenting with a range of media, is encapsulated in the Gaskell Album. 
Formed with drawings given by the artist to Helen Mary Gaskell (cat. 121), it 
demonstrates the impressive variety of Burne-Jones’s work. The album not 
only contains studies for paintings such as The Annunciation, King Cophetua and 
the Beggar Maid and The Masque of Cupid, but also designs for stained glass (St 
Luke and Sibylla Cimmeria), as well as illustrations (both used and discarded) for 
Kelmscott Press publications, including The Golden Legend, Morris’s The Well at 
the World’s End, The Romance of Sire Degrevant, The Romance of Sir Isumbras and the 
magisterial Kelmscott Chaucer. These are interspersed with delicately rendered 
female faces, garlands, and anatomical studies that are absolutely characteristic 
of Burne-Jones’s other-worldly artistic language. KW

1. Private collection; Wildman and Christian 
(1998) no. 119. Burne-Jones made a copy of this 
painting in 1887, see fig. 54.
2. Quoted in Mancoff (1998) p. 88.
3. Burne-Jones later recast this composition, 
removing the element of nudity, as The Tree of 
Forgiveness (1882; Lady Lever Art Gallery).
4. WA1939.9.46. A further study in graphite 
for the mermaid’s face was also given to the 
Ashmolean by Mrs Gaskell, WA1939.13.


Fig. 54 | Sir Edward Coley Burne-Jones (1833–
1898), Tbe Depths of the Sea, 1887. Watercolour and 
bodycolour on wove paper mounted on panel. 
Fogg Museum, Harvard Art Museums, 1943.462 
© President and Fellows of Harvard College




79

Frederick Sandys 1829–1904

Nepenthe, 1892

Black and white chalks on paper
32 x 24.5 cm
Signed and dated: FF Sandys 1892 
Inscribed: Nepenthe (in Greek characters)
Presented by Sir Karl Parker, 1942
WA1942.81

Literature: Elzea (2001) no. 5.5

From an early age Sandys had a reputation as a consummate draughtsman, 
which he said he owed to the studies of antiquities that he made as a boy in 
Norfolk for the Revd James Bulwer. His first exhibit at the Royal Academy, 
in 1851, was a large chalk portrait drawing, a genre in which he later came 
to specialise. 
After his meeting with Rossetti in 1857, he painted and drew a 
succession 
of half-length or head and shoulders portraits of women. From 
Queen Eleanor in 1858, the oils were executed in true Pre-Raphaelite fashion, 
with meticulous detail and using bright colours on a white ground.1 Gradually, 
the narrative became less important, and the titles largely a pretext for the 
depiction of a beautiful model, sometimes a femme fatale. 

In the early 1870s Sandys made a large, full-length drawing of Lethe, for which 
his sister Emma probably posed.2 She illustrates lines from Dante’s Purgatorio, 
Canto 29, in which the poet meets Mathilda singing and gathering flowers 
beside a brook, intended to evoke the twin rivers of Lethe and Eunoe, Oblivion 
and Remembrance. Nearly 20 years later Sandys resumed the head of Lethe, 
creating one of his most beguiling and symbolist images, Nepenthe – named after 
a drug of forgetfulness mentioned in the Odyssey, and more recently by Edgar 
Allan Poe in his celebrated poem, ‘The Raven’ (1845). 

Since Emma Sandys died in 1877, it is perhaps fanciful to associate this 
drawing 
of 1892 with her memory. In any case, it is possible that Sandys 
still had the drawing of Lethe in his studio, so he was able to make an 
accurate 
transcription 
of the head. Behind it are the flowers associated with 
forgetfulness, 
in particular the opium poppy. This treatment is reminiscent 
of Sandys’s early masterpiece, Gentle Spring (1865), in which the figure of 
Proserpine returning from the land of the dead is seen against a blossoming 
garden. An orchard and meadow lie beyond, while prominent opium poppies 
grow in the foreground.3 The drawing is made on an appropriately greenish 
sheet of paper, in black and white chalks applied with extraordinary subtlety. 
The textures of flesh, fabric, and flowers are perfectly differentiated, while the 
smoke swirling round her head is almost ethereal. CH

1. National Museum of Wales, Cardiff; Elzea 
(2001) no. 1.A.159.
2. William Morris Gallery, Walthamstow; Elzea 
(2001) no. 3.11.
3. Ashmolean Museum, WA1923.2; Elzea (2001) 
no. 2.A.70.




80

Aubrey Vincent Beardsley 1872–1898

Vignettes for ‘Le Morte d’Arthur’: Female Figure (book 11, chapter 7) 
and A Faun (book 6, chapter 9), 1893

Pen and black ink on white paper
11.2 x 7.6 cm and 10.6 x 7.7 cm
Purchased, 1941
WA1941.110–11

In 1892 the 20-year-old Beardsley was working in London as a clerk for the 
Guardian Fire and Life Assurance Company and frequenting Frederick 
Evans’s bookshop in nearby Queen Street, obtaining books in exchange for 
his drawings. 
Through Evans, Beardsley was introduced to the publisher John 
Dent, who was seeking an illustrator for his edition of Malory’s Morte d’Arthur. 
Beardsley thus secured the first commission of his artistic career.

Dent promised a fee of £250 for around 400 illustrations ‘in the manner 
of Burne-Jones’.1 He planned to produce a popular volume rivalling those of 
Morris’s Kelmscott Press, and to employ the cheaper photo-reproductive line-
block process rather than printing from hand-carved woodblocks. There can 
be no doubt that Beardsley initially considered Burne-Jones’s work worthy of 
emulation. He and his sister, Mabel, had first met the elder artist in July 1871 at 
his studio, where Burne-Jones encouraged Beardsley to attend the Westminster 
School of Art. He also provided him with a letter of introduction to Puvis de 
Chavannes, whom Beardsley met in Paris in mid-1892. However, the onerous 
obligations of the commission weighed heavily on Beardsley and his satirical 
nature and characteristic love of the grotesque prompted him to parody his 
previous mentor. Both Morris and Burne-Jones, for whom Malory’s Morte 
d’Arthur was tantamount to a sacred text, were subsequently appalled by Dent’s 
edition (1893–4).

Beardsley’s genius lay in adapting his draughtsmanship to the limitations 
of the line-block process and the rigours of punishing deadlines. Influenced 
by both Japanese woodblock prints and the art of fin-de-siècle Paris, Beardsley 
radically simplified his backgrounds, persuasively playing off expanses of dense 
black against areas of blank white. His masterly economy of line produced 
the faintly malevolent expressions of these two figures. Concentrating upon 
creating 
compelling designs rather than convincing depictions of space, 
Beardsley’s illustrations abound with unsettling disruptions of expected scale, 
as here in the relative proportions of the faun and the framing trees. His sheer 
inventiveness, often unhampered by a need, or desire, to illustrate the text 
in any traditional sense, nevertheless conveyed the element of the sinister or 
uncanny undoubtedly present in Malory’s narrative, but ignored by previous 
interpreters. While the lady agitating the incense fumes with a suggestively 
malicious demeanour may not have been conceived as a particular character, 
she aptly opens the account of the second enchanted seduction of Launcelot by 
Elaine, mother of Galahad, assisted by her maid Dame Brisen. The shame of 
this unintended infidelity when discovered by Guinevere prompts Launcelot to 
jump out of the chamber window and to run mad in the forest for a spell of two 
years. KW

1. Quoted in MacCarthy (2011) p. 440.




81

Anna Alma-Tadema 1865/7–1943

Girl in a Bonnet with her Head on a Blue Pillow, 1902

Watercolour and bodycolour with some 
graphite on board
36.6 x 26.5 cm
Signed and dated: Anna Alma Tadema 1902
Purchased, 1964
WA1964.81

Anna Alma-Tadema is best known for her highly detailed studies of the ornate 
and exotically furnished interiors of Townshend House near Regent’s Park 
(1883–5), where her father, the Dutch painter Sir Lawrence Alma-Tadema 
(1836–1912), made his home.1 As Anna was only in her late teens when these 
were produced, she was clearly highly skilled at a young age, conveying the 
sumptuous details of the mosaics, tiles and textiles using a jewel-like colouring 
technique similar to the Orientalist interiors of J. F. Lewis. Described by 
her father’s biographer Helen Zimmern as a ‘delicate, dainty artist who 
has inherited 
so much of her father’s power for reproducing detail’, Anna 
was probably 
encouraged by him, as well as by her step-mother Laura (née 
Epps, c. 1852–1909), herself a painter.2 Anna exhibited regularly at the Royal 
Academy and elsewhere, winning a prize at the World’s Columbian Exposition 
in 1893.

The sitter in this striking portrait is unknown. Nonetheless, with her dark 
eyes and long oval face she bears a striking resemblance to the model gazing 
out at the viewer from the bottom right of Lawrence Alma-Tadema’s The Roses of 
Heliogabalus (1888; private collection).3 The reclining female, languidly arranged 
on soft furnishings in a domestic interior, is a familiar theme in this period, 
but the turning of the woman’s face towards us gives the work a very different 
effect from those in which she is distanced from us, enabling us to view her more 
voyeuristically. Pressed close up against the picture plane, she engages us as an 
individual, despite her absent, slightly melancholic gaze.

As in many Aesthetic paintings, the artist delights in evoking a sensuous 
variety of textures – the gauze cap with its lace edging, the soft velvet of the 
cloak, the fluffiness of the swan’s-feather collar, and the cushion’s crisp silk. 
Like Whistler’s Symphony in White, No. 1 (1861–2), this work plays with subtle 
shades of white on white, set against the green-white wood panelling behind 
and white couch beneath. The Japanese-style butterflies on the blue pillow may 
also be a reference to Whistler. The painting by Lawrence Alma-Tadema of his 
two young daughters, This is Our Corner (1873; Van Gogh Museum, Amsterdam), 
may indicate that the blue pillow held a particular significance for Anna, as she 
is seen reclining with her head on a blue pillow in the background. Alternatively, 
it may simply have been an opportunity to introduce a spectacular colour note 
into the composition.

Marion Hepworth-Dixon’s description of Laura Alma-Tadema’s approach to 
painting also seems apt in relation to Anna’s careful and meditative technique: 
her ‘love and reverence of nature seems to make her handle her pigments as a 
nun might count her rosary’.4 CP

1. These are in the Royal Academy, London; 
Nelson-Atkins Museum, Kansas; Cooper Hewitt, 
Smithsonian Design Museum.
2. Zimmern (1902) p. 8.
3. Becker and Prettejohn (1996) pp. 236–7.
4. The Studio, 50 (June 1910), p. 54.




Diversity
& Conflict

The Modernist
Century 

Detail from Harold Gilman, 
Seascape: Breaking Waves (cat. 89)



82

Augustus Edwin John 1878–1961

Caspar, 1906

Black chalk on paper
27.3 x 22.2 cm
Signed: John 
Lent by the Christopher Sands Trust, 2001
LI054.60
© John, Augustus Edwin (1878–1961) / 
Bridgeman Images

Literature: Holroyd, Evans, John (1996) 
no. 23

In 1906 Augustus John’s wife Ida (née Nettleship, 1877–1907) wrote to her 
friend Margaret Sampson from Paris: ‘Caspar has just come up from the studio 
remarking “he gave me a penny”. I suppose he’s been sitting … He is still very fat 
and solid, and can’t run at all quickly.’1 Caspar (1903–1984) was her second son; 
he would have been aged about three when this drawing was made. It is ironic 
that, in a further sketch (private collection) made at about the same time, he is 
seen wearing a cocked hat given that he entered naval college aged 13 (despite 
his father’s objections). He became a flying officer in the fledgling Fleet Air Arm 
and eventually Admiral of the Fleet.2 As First Sea Lord and Chief of Naval Staff 
(1960–3), Caspar came to embody a level of military discipline that was entirely 
absent from his early, rather Bohemian upbringing.

Augustus John’s portraits of his sons are some of the most sensitive, 
psychologically 
astute images of children ever produced. Like his sister Gwen, 
he seems to have wished to penetrate the mysterious inner world of a child’s 
mind. A number of wonderfully fluent black chalk drawings of John’s children, 
most purchased directly from the artist, are currently on loan to the Ashmolean 
from the collection of Morton Sands.

In this rapid sketch, taken from life, the soft but elaborate curls of Caspar’s 
long hair are sketched in fluently, while the artist focuses on capturing the 
unsettling intensity of the child’s gaze, with his distinctive almond-shaped eyes. 
Sharp accents around the eyelids, pupils, and lips give way to loose hatching 
for the shading on the left side of the face, suggesting the need for a speedy 
transcription 
of the impatient toddler’s features. 

A slightly older and more introspective Caspar can be seen in an oil portrait 
of c. 1909 at the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge.3 His more serious 
expression 
may reflect the fact that his mother Ida had died following the birth 
of her fifth son, Henry, in 1907. CP

1. Quoted in Holroyd, Evans, John (1996) p. 41.
2. Holroyd, Evans, John (1996) no. 24.
3. PD.23–1976.




83

Augustus Edwin John 1878–1961

Standing draped figure, c. 1909

Graphite on paper
54.5 x 35.4 cm
Signed: John
Lent by the Christopher Sands Trust, 2001
LI054.101
© John, Augustus Edwin (1878–1961) / 
Bridgeman Images

Literature: Jenkins (1978) pp. 104–11; 
Jenkins and Stephens (2004) no. 75

The model in this drawing is probably Dorothy McNeill (1881–1969), nicknamed 
‘Dorelia’ by John. A student at the Westminster School of Art, she 
became a friend of Gwen John and subsequently joined Augustus in a ménage 
à trois with his wife, Ida. The work most closely resembles the large study 
of a Standing Woman Draped in a Shawl, of c. 1907–10 (Fitzwilliam Museum, 
Cambridge).1 In general the large drawings of Dorelia from this period show 
her more heavily clothed, in characteristically loose skirts and peasant blouses, 
but a study for the painting Forza e Amore (exhibited 1911; now destroyed) also 
shows her in a scantily clad state, draped in a more classical garment (c. 1909–11; 
Ashmolean Museum).2 

Around 1909 Augustus John began making large-scale drawings of standing 
female figures in connection with a commission from the art dealer Sir Hugh 
Lane for mural decorations in his new home, part of Lindsey House in Cheyne 
Walk, Chelsea. Although this drawing is probably associated with these 
unfinished 
murals (abandoned after Lane was drowned on board the Lusitania 
in 1915), it cannot be directly related to any existing works. It is most similar to a 
figure in the same pose, though in reverse, in a compositional drawing of c. 1910 
at the National Museum of Wales. This features six classically posed and draped 
female figures on a bank with the sea behind them, and is thought to be a study 
for The Lyric Fantasy (1911–4; Tate).3 The woman’s open left arm is also similar 
in gesture to the figure of Ida in The Way Down to the Sea (exhibited 1909; private 
collection). Both the classical draperies and expansive gestures of these figures 
reflect John’s interest in the work of the French artist Puvis de Chavannes 
(1824–1898), which he had encountered in Paris around 1900. 

The confidence with which John approaches this complex subject reflects his 
training under Henry Tonks and Wilson Steer at the Slade School. There, the 
painter William Rothenstein recalled, ‘we did draw at a time when everywhere 
else in England students were rubbing and tickling their paper with stump, 
chalk, charcoal and india rubber’.4 There is some smudging of the pencil in the 
model’s left arm and torso, but otherwise John uses sweeping lines and a great 
economy of touch, for example employing shorthand squiggles for fabric folds 
on the shoulder. His work reflects the importance he gave to draughtsmanship, 
quoting Ingres’s ‘magisterial dictum’ in a National Gallery exhibition catalogue 
of his drawings of 1940: ‘Le Dessin, c’est la Probité de l’Art.’5 CP

1. Jenkins and Stephens (2004) no. 74; see also 
Dorelia Wearing a Shawl, in Hazlitt Holland-
Hibbert (2004) p. 30.
2. LI054.93
3. Jenkins (1978) no. 106 (NMW 3976).
4. Rothenstein (1931) I, chapter III.
5. National Gallery (1940) p. 17.




84

Gwen John 1876–1939

Boy with a Blank Expression, 1928

Black chalk and bodycolour with some 
white chalk on paper
20.9 x 16.4 cm
Bequeathed by Miss Anna Hornby, 1996
WA1996.29

Literature: Arts Council (1968) no. 95

Gwen John trained with her brother Augustus at the Slade School 1895–8. She 
won the figure composition prize in 1898 before going on to study with Whistler 
in Paris and to work as a model for Rodin. From late December 1926, living in 
Meudon, she became spiritually very close to her neighbours, the charismatic 
Catholic theologian Jacques Maritain and his wife Raïssa, to whose younger 
sister Véra Oumançoff Gwen became obsessively attached. Seeing her as a form 
of ‘spiritual mother’, she wrote to Véra virtually every day, expressing the inner 
struggle between the demands of her religion and her art in a form of private 
confessional. 

Restricted to visiting Véra just once a week, Gwen would give her a regular 
‘dessin de lundi’ (Monday drawing), so that by the time Véra ended the 
friendship 
in late 1930 – having found Gwen’s intensity too smothering – she 
owned around a hundred drawings. This study of a young boy appears to have 
been one such drawing. It is closely related to another version that bears Gwen’s 
studio stamp, Boy with a Blank Face.1 The Ashmolean version was given to Véra 
on 29 May 1928. The close similarity between the two drawings implies that 
Gwen could have traced the outlines, using a technique she had learned in 
Rodin’s studio, by holding the work up against a window.2 This may explain 
why the fluid contours are so much more assured than the broken lines of 
the portraits 
of Breton children that Gwen had sketched in the late 1910s. In 
the paring down of the form to its bare essentials, the work has something of 
Rodin’s drawings, of Gaudier-Brzeska, and of nineteenth-century Japanese 
prints. In 1909 Gwen John wrote to Ursula Tyrwhitt of the need to practise 
‘
putting things down with decision’, noting that ‘I want my drawings … to be 
definite and clean like Japanese drawings’.3 

According to Susan Chitty, Gwen John saw this boy waiting on a station 
platform on a journey into Paris. A brief sketch on the verso of the Ashmolean 
drawing of a sleeping man in a bowler hat, might also have been drawn on the 
train. She offered Véra this drawing together with one of a ‘Little Girl with a 
Large Hat and Straw-coloured Hair’, inscribing them on the back of the original 
mounts, ‘Little girl in the train (you)’ and ‘At the station (me)’.4 Indeed, the boy 
bears a striking resemblance to a photograph of Gwen as a child, in the angle 
of the head, the outline of the face, and his hauntingly mournful expression, 
described by Gwen herself as one of ‘stupid fear’.5 CP

1. Present location unknown; Langdale (1987) 
no. 309.
2. Lloyd-Morgan (2004) p. 49.
3. Lloyd-Morgan (2004) p. 49.
4. Bristol City Art Gallery, K1829; Langdale 
(1987) no. 294.
5. Chitty (1981) p. 187; photograph reproduced 
in Langdale (1987) p. 3.




85

Paul Nash 1889–1946

The Wood on the Hill, 1912

Pen and black ink over graphite with wash 
on paper
33.9 x 33.3 cm
Signed with monogram: PN
Purchased (Christopher Vaughan Bequest 
Fund), 2001
WA2001.60
© Tate, London 2014 

Literature: Eates (1948) no. 7; Causey 
(1980) no. 55; Jenkins (2010) no. 39

The Wittenham Clumps, near his uncle’s farm at Sinodun House outside 
Wallingford, came to fascinate Nash in 1911; he described them as ‘the Pyramids 
of my small world’.1 They reappeared frequently in his works of the 1930s and 
1940s. Although Nash found fame as an official war artist from 1917–8, the 
domed forms of Round Hill and Castle Hill crowned with beech woods became 
synonymous with his artistic identity at the outset and conclusion of his career. 
In 1913 the poster for his joint exhibition with his brother John, at the Dorien 
Leigh Gallery, included the Wittenham Clumps as a backdrop. John’s book 
jacket for Paul’s posthumously published autobiography Outline (1948) also 
featured this distinctive Oxfordshire landscape.2

Initially, Nash had been under the sway of the Pre-Raphaelites, primarily that 
of Dante Gabriel Rossetti. However, having spent four terms at the Slade School 
from autumn 1910, and on the advice of Sir William Blake Richmond that he 
‘should go in for nature’, Nash began to develop his skills as a landscape artist.3 
He was profoundly engaged by the mystery of the encounter between himself 
and particular places, which especially in his early work often focused on trees. 
Writing to his mentor Gordon Bottomley, he explained, ‘I have tried … to paint 
trees as tho’ they were human beings … because I sincerely love and worship 
trees and know they are people’.4

Describing his first conscious experience of the Clumps nearly 30 years later, 
Nash highlighted his solitariness, having strayed from a shooting party in which 
he was a beater. The unexpected, vivid revelation of the landscape surprised him. 
The following day he sought the best position from which to depict the motif, 
likening his sketch to successfully hunted quarry, allowing him to make his 
‘living out of the land as much as my ancestors ever had done’.5 Captured with 
formal austerity and delicacy of colour, the timeless autumn landscape, in which 
the stooks of corn recall the imposing group of trees, is so calm as to give the 
sensation of a place brimming with concealed significance. The path from right 
to left (reinforced by the placement of Nash’s monogram), then ascends the hill, 
implying a metaphysical journey. Yet the contemplation of this monumental 
vision is not entirely divorced from the wider landscape, which Nash punctuates 
at the left with a tiny church spire. KW

1. Nash (1948) p. 122.
2. Rothenstein (1983) p. 20 and Gough (2014) 
p. 126.
3. Causey (1980) p. 24.
4. Letter c. 1 August 1912, Nash and Bottomley 
(1955) p. 42.
5. Nash (1948) p. 123.




86

Walter Richard Sickert 1860–1942

Study for ‘Ennui’: Hubby and Marie, 1913–4

Pen and brown ink over black chalk, 
with red ink, on pale brown paper
38 x 28 cm
Inscribed: O I say I wish if I’d never / cared 
for him, in [ … ] of this / free from the stars / O 
I say … 
Purchased, 1943
WA1943.95

Literature: Manchester (2004) no. 5.06; 
Baron (2006) no. 418.5

After his return to London in 1905, Sickert occupied a number of houses and 
studios in Camden Town, an area of London described by the novelist Ford 
Madox Ford as a place of ‘grimy boxlike houses, yellow gas and perpetual ring 
of tram-horse hoofs’.1 Camden Town was never fashionable, and in 1907 it 
became notorious owing to the murder of the prostitute Emily Dimmock, a 
crime known as ‘the Camden Town Murder’. Sickert used the title for a series 
of paintings, drawings, and etchings depicting a naked woman and a clothed 
man. He continued the theme of two figures in an interior in numerous other 
paintings. Ennui marks the climax. 

The first, and largest, painting of this title was exhibited at the New English 
Art Club in 1914, and preceded by an unusually complex preparatory process.2 
The models were Hubby, an old schoolfriend of the artist’s and a reformed 
alcoholic, and Marie Hayes, who may have been Hubby’s wife. Both had joined 
Sickert’s household towards the end of 1911. They are seen in Sickert’s studio 
on the corner of Granby Street and the Hampstead Road, which was appropriately 
down-at-heel, and which he furnished with unfashionable furniture 
and ornaments, 
such as the Victorian bell-jar of stuffed birds and the religious 
painting. In addition to three oil sketches of the figures, Sickert also made a 
large number of preparatory drawings, both of the whole composition and of 
individual elements, concentrating on the precise pose of the figures and their 
relationship, and the elements of still life – decanter, bell-jar, and picture frame. 
The present drawing is the final compositional study, to which Sickert seems 
to have returned as he worked out various problems in other paintings and 
drawings. Marie’s back is therefore drawn three times, reflecting its changing 
position in one of the oil sketches. The drawing is squared up, and Sickert 
probably 
used an adjustable grid to transfer the composition to canvas. He 
reported to Miss Sands that he was pleased by this new method of painting:

I find this painting from drawings works out very well. You work in such properly 
ordered stages from general to particular statement. It also naturally dictates a somewhat 
larger scale as drawings can be so delicate and paint is so thick. I expect it is the solution
to that puzzle.3

The title, Ennui, suggests the boredom of married life, in which a wife finds a 
glass of stuffed birds more interesting than her husband, who has to resort to 
beer and a cigar for pleasure. In the final, and most satisfactory, painting of the 
subject, now in the Ashmolean, Sickert intensified the mood by including a 
jaunty wallpaper, suggested in this drawing by the circular patterns to the right 
of the figures. CH 

1. Quoted by Lynda Nead in Upstone (2008) p. 40.
2. Tate; Baron (2006) no. 418.
3. Baron (2006) p. 93.



Fig. 55 | Walter Richard Sickert (1860–1942), 
Ennui, 1917–8. Oil on canvas. Ashmolean 
Museum, Oxford, WA1940.1.92




87

Walter Richard Sickert 1860–1942

Still Life: the Music Room in Morton Sands’s House, 91 Cheyne Walk, London, 1913

Pencil, pen and ink and watercolour, 
on paper, squared for transfer and 
numbered
29.2 x 26 cm
Accepted by HM Government in lieu 
of Inheritance Tax and allocated to the 
Ashmolean Museum, 2011
WA2011.194

Literature: Baron (2006) no. 429

Morton Sands (1884–1959) was the younger brother of Ethel Sands 
(1873–1962). Their father was a wealthy American drug manufacturer and their 
mother, Mary Hartpence, a great society beauty. Both parents died young. 
Morton was brought up by his sister, a painter who was a member of Sickert’s 
Fitzroy Street Group and his close friend and confidant for many years. Ethel 
undoubtedly influenced her brother’s taste, and in about 1911 he began to build 
up one of the most important collections of works by Sickert formed during the 
artist’s lifetime; most of the paintings and drawings it contained are now in the 
Ashmolean Museum. Some years after leaving New College, Oxford, Morton 
moved into a handsome, mid-eighteenth-century house known as Belle Vue 
Cottage, 91 Cheyne Walk; here he lived until his death. He was musical, and had 
political aspirations. 

This unusual drawing was made in March 1913, at a period when Sickert 
declared to Miss Sands that ‘your technical salvation is my present mission’.1 
She had begun a painting of Morton’s sitting room, but found it inexorably 
turning black. In line with his current practice of making elaborate preparatory 
drawings 
for his paintings, Sickert therefore made a study for Ethel to work 
on. She wrote to her companion, Nan Hudson, on 7 March that ‘It’s a lovely 
drawing but you can’t imagine how funny it is, for him!’2 Four days later Sickert 
squared it up, and added the figures of Ethel and Morton on separate pieces of 
paper. At the same time he made four ‘adorable little sections from his drawing 
which he wants me to work into, they are much too pretty to touch’.3 

Neither Miss Sands nor Miss Hudson ever completed the large oil, in spite 
of Sickert’s encouragement, but they were both very fond of the drawing. 
However, Sickert instructed them to ‘keep it as a private drawing and not frame 
or put it up … Let us treat it as a compromising letter and not show it either 
to J.B. Lady O. or anyone’.4 As a vivid and intensely personal study, described 
by Sickert as ‘the picture of Morton’s “objects de luxe and articles de virtue” 
(As I once saw on a bric-a-brac window)’, it is both rare and touching.5 CH

1. Quoted in Baron (1977) p. 104.
2. Ibid.
3. Quoted in Baron (1977) pp. 104–5.
4. Quoted in Baron (1977) p. 105.
5. Ibid.




88

Harold John Wilde Gilman 1876–1919

Mrs Mounter at the Breakfast Table, 1916–7

Pen and black ink, partly scratched, squared 
in red ink, on paper 
28.5 x 18.9 cm
Signed: H Gilman. Inscribed with numbers 
for transfer
Presented by R. A. Bevan, 1957
WA1957.28

Gilman was already over 30 when he and his contemporary from the Slade 
School, Spencer Gore (1878–1914), joined Sickert in the Fitzroy Group, 
initially called ‘Mr Sickert at home’, in rented premises at 19 Fitzroy Street. 
Together, the members of the group developed their individual styles of 
painting 
in response to recent developments in France. The exhibition of 
‘Manet and the Post-Impressionists’ in 1910 was decisive for Gilman, who 
admired Van Gogh above all, but experimented with a variety of styles. He 
was instrumental in the formation of the Camden Town Group in 1911, and 
shared his fellow members’ love of essentially urban subjects, interiors and 
townscapes, painted in bright colours.

It was not until 1914 that Gilman moved permanently to London. He 
lodged at 47 Maple Street, W1, only a few yards from Fitzroy Street, where 
he painted a number of portraits of Mrs Mounter, until recently assumed 
to be his landlady, but in fact a fellow lodger. She was Anna Emma Mounter 
(1850–1932), who lived with her husband, Frederick, in another set of rooms in 
the same house.1 Gilman occupied two rooms, probably on the first floor; the 
larger at the front where he ate and slept, with the smaller at the back serving 
as his studio. 

This drawing, its function indebted to Sickert’s similar practice of making 
elaborately squared-up studies for his oil paintings (cat. 87), was made in 
preparation 
for Gilman’s portrait of Mrs Mounter. He was to paint two 
versions 
of different sizes c. 1916–7, the study corresponding more closely to 
the larger work.2 Mrs Mounter has joined Gilman in his rooms, and is sitting 
at the breakfast table, ready to pour tea from the brown Betty for the two of 
them. In the paintings, the dazzling scarlet of her headscarf and the brilliant 
turquoise of the wall paper relieve the strict geometry, emphasised in the 
drawing by the squaring for transfer. The critic Frank Rutter wrote of this 
composition 
that it was ‘the apotheosis of the charwoman, the transfiguration 
of homeliness, age, and toil into a spiritual loveliness of colour that time 
cannot wither’.3

1. See Rolfe (2010) 
2. Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool; and Tate, 
London. See http://www.tate.org.uk/art/
research-publications/camden-town-group/
harold-gilman-mrs-mounter-at-the-breakfast-
table-r1156198, accessed on 27 January 2015.
3. Quoted in Upstone (2008) no. 55.



Fig. 56 | Harold Gilman (1876–1919), Mrs Mounter 
at the Breakfast Table, 1916–7. Oil on canvas. Tate, 
London, N05317 © Tate, London 2014




89

Harold John Wilde Gilman 1876–1919

Seascape: Breaking Waves, 1917

Pen and black ink on paper
29.8 x 43 cm
Signed: H. Gilman
Purchased (Bevan Fund), 1958
WA1958.32

In their ambition to remain resolutely modern, the members of the Camden 
Town Group generally eschewed landscapes without identifiably contemporary 
subjects. The notable exception was Robert Bevan (1865–1925), who painted 
numerous agricultural landscapes in Devonshire and elsewhere. Ginner, 
Gilman, and Gore also painted landscapes, but these only serve to emphasise 
the urban character of their usual subjects. 

This seascape is exceptional in Gilman’s work, indeed in the whole 
production 
of the Camden Town Group. The subject has come to epitomise the 
Romantic view of man’s isolation in the face of the infinity of God’s creation, 
as described by Robert Rosenblum in his seminal text, Modern Painting and the 
Northern Romantic Tradition (1975), based on his Slade lectures at Oxford in 1972. 
He traced the contemplation of the sea from Caspar David Friedrich’s Monk 
by the Sea of 1809 through the aggressively ‘realist’ The Artist on the Seashore at 
Palavas (1854) by Gustave Courbet, and on to the American painter J. A. McNeill 
Whistler’s Harmony in Blue and Silver, subtitled Courbet at Trouville, of 1865.1 
The motif of the beach and sea was repeated frequently by Whistler, generally 
without 
a figure, as Impressionist studies of ephemeral effects of weather 
and light and shade. Whistler’s seascapes would have been known to Gilman, 
who visited the great memorial exhibition of his work in 1905 and stayed in 
Whistler’s house at Neuville outside Dieppe in the summer of 1907.

Gilman made a handful of landscapes on Romney Marsh, where his 
father served as rector of Snave with Snargate from 1890 until his death. 
The flat expanses of the countryside were therefore familiar to him from his 
adolescence. 
This drawing may date from a visit to the area shortly before or 
after the death of his father in 1917. It is executed with a broad reed pen, a 
medium frequently used by Van Gogh, whom Gilman particularly admired.2 
In the drawing school that he and Charles Ginner ran in Soho between 
January 1916 and December 1917, the two reproductions on the walls were 
of paintings by Van Gogh and Toulouse-Lautrec. This seascape shares with 
its iconographical 
precedents an intention to merge the sea and the sky into 
a whole composed of identifiable elements. Yet its technique transcends the 
conventional Romanticism of such a subject, creating a pattern of marks which, 
while evoking a seascape, tend towards the abstraction of nature. CH

1. See Rosenblum (1978) pp. 69–70.
2. Ives (2005) p. 37.




90

Charles Ginner 1878–1952

Flask Walk: Rain, c. 1924

Pen and black ink with watercolour 
on paper
34.6 x 23.2 cm
Signed: C. GINNER
Presented by the Misses Kitson, 1940
WA1940.8.7
© The Artist’s Estate

In an article entitled ‘Neo-Realism’ in New Age, 1 January 1914, Ginner set out 
the beliefs of his colleagues in the Camden Town Group that art should concern 
itself with life ‘in all its effects, moods, and developments. Each age has its 
landscape, its atmosphere, its cities, its people’.1 Among the themes the Group 
treated were those specifically favoured by the Impressionists: streetscapes, 
intimate interiors, and portraits of friends, family, and the working classes. 

Ginner had trained as an architect, and he enjoyed painting the complexity of 
the interlocking and superimposed planes of the industrial or residential townscape. 
He habitually used a home-made viewfinder, with black cotton to find the 
exact view. His oil paintings thus have the appearance of complex geometrical 
puzzles, painted in thick impasto, which give them an air of unreality. In the 
creation of a new and highly imaginary realism, he may be seen as the precursor 
of L. S. Lowry (1887–1976). 

From 1919 until 1938 Ginner lived at 61 Hampstead High Street, where he 
occupied the four floors above the shop. The view over the High Street towards 
Flask Walk frequently provided him with a convenient subject. His sitting room 
had three windows, so he was able to vary the viewpoint, concentrating on the 
buildings on the left or the right side of the street. He also painted or drew the 
scene in different effects of weather, or on special occasions such as Guy Fawkes’ 
Day in 1936 or Coronation Day in 1937.2

This highly finished drawing has been dated c. 1924. Ginner shows more 
of the room than usual, and the foreground is occupied by an elaborate still 
life, including the top of his desk with a ginger jar and other objects, and the 
windowsill 
crowded with flowers, scales, and ink bottles. In his oil paintings, 
Ginner used heavily encrusted, carefully applied pigment with thick black 
outlines, 
and his watercolours share these qualities. This splendid example is 
drawn in his characteristically meticulous technique, the black ink delineating 
every detail, and the saturated watercolours applied with painstaking deliberation. 
CH

1. Quoted in Upstone (2008) p. 139.
2. See http://www.tate.org.uk/art/research-
publications/camden-town-group/charles-
ginner-flask-walk-hampstead-on-coronation-
day-r1159221, accessed on 27 January 2015.




91

Eric Henri Kennington 1888–1960

William Rothenstein, 1917–8

Black chalk touched with red chalk and 
heightened with white chalk on grey paper 
49.5 x 41.5 cm
Accepted by HM Government in lieu of 
Inheritance Tax on the Estate of Lady 
(John) Rothenstein and allocated to the 
Ashmolean Museum, 2005
WA2005.16
© The Family of the Artist

On the outbreak of the First World War Kennington volunteered, and went on 
to serve as a private in the 13th territorial battalion of the London Regiment, 
known as ‘the Kensingtons’. His first war painting, The Kensingtons at Kaventie: 
Winter 1914 (1915; IWM), was described by Campbell Dodgson, an influential 
Keeper in the British Museum, as ‘decidedly the finest picture inspired by this 
war as yet produced by an English artist’.1 Following an unofficial visit to France 
in December 1916, Kennington showed a series of portraits of soldiers at the 
Goupil Gallery, which enjoyed great success. His claims to be appointed an 
official war artist were promoted by Thomas Derrick, who thought his portraits 
would be useful propaganda, because ‘most people are more interested in 
soldiers than shell-holes’; and Dodgson, who proclaimed him ‘a born painter 
of the nameless heroes of the rank and file’.2 After his appointment in August 
1917 he travelled out to the Western Front, where he was much in demand: ‘a 
portrait draughtsman is welcomed out here, everybody wanting to be drawn 
from Generals to Privates and, consequently, I am treated magnificently.’3 His 
aim was to ‘get as much as possible of the magnificence of the men, all their fine 
qualities, varied characters and appearances’.4 For much of the time, he was not 
at the front line, but, as he wrote to William Rothenstein, ‘near enough to get 
the war and far enough for safety’.5 

Rothenstein was only appointed an artist to the Ministry of Information 
on 17 December 1917, after persuading the authorities that his German name 
and slight German accent should not be perceived as handicaps. He joined 
Kennington on the Somme at Montigny Farm near Roisel, some 10 miles from 
Péronne, where British and American troops were quartered, ‘a desolate spot, 
where a few tin huts were grouped together in a flat muddy landscape’.6 He was 
surprised to find that Kennington ‘seemed content to draw tents and shacks 
and camp rubbish’.7 During their few days together Kennington made this very 
striking portrait of his friend and fellow artist, in the quick, confident strokes of 
black chalk for which he was renowned. The features of the bald, short-sighted 
Rothenstein are admirably characterised, rather uncomfortable in his tommy’s 
tin hat, and looking every inch the displaced intellectual or aesthete. CH 

1. Black (2001) p. 4
2. Quoted in Black (2001) p. 6; Dodgson and 
Montague (1918) p. 1.
3. Black (2001) p. 4.
4. Quoted in Black (2001) p. 8.
5. Black (2001) p. 6.
6. Harries (1983) p. 62.
7. Harries (1983) p. 50.




92

Austin Osman Spare 1886–1956

A Dressing Station, 1919

Pastel on Ingres paper
52.1 x 39.5 cm
Presented by Mrs Elizabeth Mitchell, 2004
WA2004.110
© The Estate of Austin Osman Spare

When Spare first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1904, he was hailed as a 
genius and confessed that his ambition was to be President of that institution.
1 
He was already inventing what he called his own ‘religion’ and in the following 
year, published his first book, Earth: Inferno. Whilst his drawings were frequently 
compared with those of Aubrey Beardsley and Edmund Sullivan, his style 
was much more mannered, and his imagery became increasingly weird and 
sexual. His abstruse mysticism can be seen in the article he published in 1916 
on ‘Automatic Drawing’, in which he argued that, just as the character of 
handwriting 
is due to the subconscious, so automatic drawing enables the artist 
to release ‘the fundamental static truths which are repressed by education and 
customary habit and lie dormant in the mind’.2

In spite of this intensely personal imagination, Spare became an effective 
war artist. He was conscripted as a private in the Royal Army Medical Corps 
on 16 May 1917, working in a hospital in Blackpool before moving back to 
London to paint records of events in the First World War that he had never 
witnessed. Between 13 May and 6 September 1919, he was in France, making 
drawings of dressing stations and other medical installations. These were no 
longer considered primarily as material for propaganda, but instead as accurate 
representations of the reality of the Front. Many were made in coloured chalks, 
avoiding the need for cumbersome painting equipment whilst at the same time 
offering the possibility of colouring on the spot rather than later in a studio. 

This drawing of a dressing station shows a medical orderly in a long white 
smock looming out of the darkness of the trench, holding a jar of chloroform. 
On the right, one invalid props himself up in his bunk, while above him, a 
second lies awkwardly on his side. Opposite is a soldier whose face is partly in 
shadow, his appearance gaunt and pallid, as he sits with his legs swinging above 
the floor, his boots and puttees crumpled. Spare has invested the scene with an 
extraordinary atmosphere of foreboding, emphasised by the deathly stillness, as 
all four men stare attentively at the artist. 

In later years, Spare was ashamed of his war work, going so far as to say that 
‘I am hoping all my work is dead and buried as there is nothing worth seeing’.3 
Fortunately, a number of pastels survive, mostly in the Imperial War Museum, 
providing a distinctive and valuable account of the work of the RAMC. CH

1. Daily Chronicle, 3 May 1904.
2. Spare (2007) p. 11.
3. Baker (2012) p. 127.




93

Ben Nicholson 1894–1982

1929 (view of the harbour at St Ives) 

Graphite on paper
33 x 42 cm
Inscribed: Ben Nicholson / one of the dwgs 
made on / first visit with Kit Wood to St Ives / + 
worked on later / One of the first dwgs he drew / 
St Ives 1929. for / the day / Kit Wood / 198
Accepted by HM Government in lieu of 
Inheritance Tax on the Estate of the Artist, 
and allocated to the Ashmolean, 1986
WA1986.358
© Angela Verren Taunt 2015. All rights 
reserved, DACS

The son of one of the most successful artists of his day, Ben Nicholson quickly 
rejected all that his father represented, and soon after the First World War began 
a long period of experimentation with various forms of the avant-garde. With 
his new wife, Winifred Roberts (1893–1981), he looked particularly at the work 
of Cézanne, the Douanier Rousseau, and the Cubists Picasso and Braque in 
Paris. His own pictures show Nicholson restlessly playing with paint and pencil, 
often combining the two, in a succession of bold experiments in perspective, 
seeking to reduce his compositions to an ultimate condition of simplification, 
and populating 
his landscapes with deliberately naive figures and animals. He 
produced his first abstract paintings in 1924, but not until nearly ten years later 
did he resume these experiments in his abstract sculptural reliefs. 

In August 1928 Nicholson visited St Ives with his friend Christopher Wood 
(1901–1930), who had become a close friend of Winifred’s. Together they 
discovered 
the art of the self-taught ‘primitive’ painter Alfred Wallis (1855–1942). 
Wallis seemed to epitomise the innocence the modernists sought; his paintings 
were devoid of any accuracy of description, but possessed an innate untutored 
vitality and expressiveness. As Nicholson later recalled, ‘One finds only the 
influences 
one is looking for and I was certainly looking for that one’.1 Stimulated 
by Wallis’s example, his painting gained a new boldness and confidence. 

Wallis was much less influential on Nicholson’s drawings. They remained 
consistently 
spare and linear from his first attempts at St Ives until the 
early 1950s, when he began to add rudimentary washes. The outline is firm 
and continuous, 
with almost no shading, space being suggested simply by 
interlocking 
lines. Nicholson found painting landscape difficult because he felt 
unable to assimilate so many different elements into a single composition; but 
drawing enabled him to convey the essence of a scene without losing immediacy 
or vitality. This sheet, taken from a sketchbook made on the artist’s first visit 
to St Ives, shows a view down a passage from Bethesda Place to the harbour. 
The buildings, 
the pier and lighthouse, and the distant hills, are all drawn in 
economical 
outline, while the boats in the harbour and one of the cats in the 
foreground are more fully described, deliberately distorting the perspective. 
Nicholson has paid particular care to the geometric shapes of the steps up to 
the doors on the left and right, and the Victorian streetlight. The lightly drawn 
animals 
on the quayside add a playful note to what is otherwise an austere 
drawing. CH

1. Quoted in Stephens (2008) p. 25.




94

Eric Arthur Rowton Gill 1882–1940

Sketchbook: ‘Drawings of B.W. 1928–1930 & S.M.’s hands’, 1928–30

Graphite on paper, 53 folios, bound in linen 
open at fol. 3 
28.5 x 22 cm 
Purchased (Madan, Blakiston Funds) 
with the assistance of The Art Fund, the 
Resource/V&A Purchase Grant Fund, the 
Friends of the Ashmolean, and Michael 
Barclay, 2003
WA2003.197

Gill was already in his mid-forties when he enrolled in the life drawing class 
at the Grande Chaumière in Paris in May 1926. He later argued that an artist 
should come to drawing from the nude ‘rather late in life, when the experience 
of living has filled the mind’.1 (These drawings were later published as First Nudes 
in 1954.) Thereafter, he studied the nude assiduously, and what might hitherto 
have seemed unnecessary for an artist-craftsman with firm Christian beliefs 
quickly became a dominant feature of his work. 

One of his most important models was the American typographer Beatrice 
Warde (1900–1967), who frequently visited Gill’s home at Pigotts in the 
Chilterns, where he had moved in October 1928. This sketchbook, one of the 
few by Gill to remain intact, includes drawings of Beatrice Warde and Stanley 
Morison, together with a few miscellaneous subjects. Gill met Morison, who 
was the Typographic Adviser to the Monotype Corporation, before the First 
World War, and it was he who introduced Gill to the redoubtable Mrs Warde. 
Whereas the relationship between Morison, a strict Catholic, and Mrs Warde, 
was not physical, Gill was typically less restrained, as his diary makes clear. 
Exceptionally, on 1 May 1930, he noted, ‘To BW in eve – sup with her. SM came 
later and I drew his hands and drew BW after. Slept with BW and she with me but 
did not commit adultery – we really slept’.2

The 49 drawings in this sketchbook are all precisely dated between 
21 December 1928 and 1 May 1930. Of these, 38 represent Beatrice Warde in 
a variety 
of poses: crouching, leaning, sitting, some provocative, others more 
demure. There is a particular focus on her breasts, stomach, and buttocks, and 
her arms and legs are very often truncated. Many sketches show variations 
on a similar pose. Gill’s line is outstandingly confident, and the shading 
characteristically 
on the outside of the outline, giving the forms a distinctly 
sculptural quality. He had first mastered this technique in a sketchbook dated 
1927, in which the study on fol. 29 is inscribed ‘first drawing in this method’.3 

Although Gill believed that drawing could be a pleasure and an end in itself, 
several of these drawings were later reproduced in Twenty-Five Nudes (1938). 
One became La Belle Sauvage, the colophon for the publisher Cassell and 
Company, which occupied premises in an inn of that name. The final drawing 
in the sketchbook, showing Morison’s hand resting on a book, was engraved 
for the last edition of The Fleuron (1930), which contained an essay on Gill’s 
typography 
by Mrs Warde. CH 

1. Gill (1938) unpaginated.
2. Quoted in MacCarthy (1989) p. 235.
3. 39 Life studies, Victoria and Albert Museum, P.D. 24.




95

William Patrick Roberts 1895–1980

Study for ‘The Park Bench’, 1933

Graphite and brown ink on paper
22.4 x 28 cm
Signed: Roberts
Presented by Sir Muirhead Bone, Leonard 
Huskinson, Albert Rutherston, and 
Professor Randolph Schwabe, 1939
WA1939.113
© Estate of John David Roberts. By 
permission of the William Roberts Society

As one of the signatories to the Vorticist manifesto, ‘Vital English Art’, in 1914, 
Roberts was in the forefront of the radical movement, dedicated to reconciling 
the abstract with the figurative in an innovative manner. His early works were 
resolutely cubist, not unlike those of his friend, David Bomberg. Later, as an 
official war artist during the First World War, he developed a more realistic 
style, the angular forms gradually becoming more rounded and plastic. Among 
the paintings he showed at his first solo exhibition in 1923 was the celebrated 
portrait of T. E. Lawrence as Aircraftman Shaw (Ashmolean Museum).1 Apart 
from portraits, Roberts painted complex compositions of numerous human 
figures engaged in everyday activities, often in the area near Regent’s Park or 
Camden Town, where he lived. 

The Park Bench (fig. 57) marks the culmination of a series of paintings begun 
in 1921 which depict people enjoying time off work in a park. As usual, Roberts 
made a detailed preparatory drawing, as well as a coloured sketch, before beginning 
work on the canvas, although he made very few changes as he proceeded.2 
Crowded into a narrow focus is a group of people sitting on a park bench. Their 
arrangement is apparently haphazard and they are facing in all directions. 
Most are in motion; the man on the farthest left smokes a pipe, while his elder 
daughter 
stands between his legs and makes her younger brother clap his hands. 
Their mother is in the middle, playing with another toddler who holds a ball and 
looks at a black dog, reclining on the right. On the end of the bench, a bearded 
man holds his pipe away from his mouth, his slipper dangling nonchalantly, 
while he looks back at the children. A bald man on the other side of the bench 
watches a woman to his left lifting up another child, and she in turn looks at the 
woman in the middle. Behind them two men play football, one shooting while 
the other acts as goalkeeper. The simplified forms and strongly contrasting areas 
of light and dark are offset by the remarkable vitality of the poses. CH

1. WA1946.267.
2. The bodycolour sketch is in the British 
Museum; see http://www.users.waitrose.
com/~wrs/catchron.html under 1933. The 
painting was sold at Sotheby’s, 19 November 
1988 lot 229.



Fig. 57 | William Roberts (1895–1980), The Park 
Bench, 1933. Oil on canvas. Private Collection. 
Photograph courtesy of Sotheby’s Picture Library 
© Estate of John David Roberts. By permission 
of the William Roberts Society




96

Eric William Ravilious 1903–1942

The Brickyard, c. 1935–6

Watercolour over graphite on paper, with a 
small sheet of added paper
47.8 x 56.6 cm
Signed: Eric Ravilious
Bequeathed by Thomas Balston, through 
The Art Fund, 1968
WA1968.38

Literature: Zwemmer Gallery (1936) 
no. 23; Graves Art Gallery (1958) no. 55; 
Russell (2011) p. 24

Trained as a wood engraver and mural painter at the Royal College of Art, where 
he was taught by Paul Nash, Ravilious worked as a book illustrator and designer 
but turned increasingly to watercolour during the 1930s. He first explored Essex 
with Edward Bawden, his friend and fellow student, when they part-rented the 
handsome Georgian Brick House, in Great Bardfield, in 1931. In 1934 Ravilious 
and his wife bought Bank House in nearby Castle Hedingham. He discovered 
the Victorian Tortoise Brickworks outside Sible Hedingham the following year, 
while preparing works for his second one-man show at the Zwemmer Gallery of 
Feburary 1936.

Ravilious never felt Bawden’s affinity for the Essex landscape, preferring 
the beguiling beauty of the Sussex Downs, which he had begun to visit early 
in 1934.1 His discovery there of Asham Cement Works prompted a series 
of five watercolours exploring the relationship of industry to the ancient 
chalk landscape. 
In The Brickyard, the old-fashioned steam engine is the main 
actor in the apparently abandoned wintry scene. While Ravilious was aware 
of Surrealism, the objects are a realistic part of the landscape, nonetheless 
embodying the distillation of heightened experience. The effect is akin to 
‘the rusty harrow, the plough / Long worn out, and the roller made of stone’ 
described in Edward Thomas’s ‘Tall Nettles’. Thomas’s poetry featured in 
Ravilious’s wide-ranging reading, and both men were intrigued by the silent 
eloquence of commonplace things. 

The numinous atmosphere depends greatly on the sober colour palette 
– inspired as much by the example of John Sell Cotman and Francis Towne, 
whose work Ravilious knew from visits to the British Museum and the Victoria 
and Albert Museum, as by the scene itself. A sophisticated variety of mark-making 
combined with the luminosity of the paper creates dynamic patterns 
redolent of Ravilious’s wood engravings. Ravilious built up the composition on 
one sheet without making preparatory studies, destroying around four out of 
every five works he produced. Here, a final amendment has been made to the 
foreground, with a patch to obscure a hand-barrow. Carefully attuned to the 
nuances of the landscape, the regimented row of pollarded willows is contrasted 
with the free forms of the other untouched trees. The brickworks are not an 
industrial incursion into a pristine landscape, but an episode in the continuing 
narrative of man’s manipulation of nature. KW

1. Powers (2013) p. 89.




97

Cecil Collins 1908–1989

Study for ‘The Quest’, 1936

Watercolour and bodycolour on paper
32 x 33 cm
Signed and dated: Cecil Collins 1936
Promised gift, 2015
LI2202.2
© Tate, London 2014

From the early 1930s Cecil and Elisabeth Collins lived in relative seclusion in 
rural Buckinghamshire, but in late 1936 they moved to Totnes in Devon. Their 
relocation 
was prompted in part by Mark Tobey, the American artist who was 
at that time Director of the Art Studio at Dartington Hall, which Leonard and 
Dorothy Elmhirst had founded on the estate they purchased in 1925. The couple 
quickly became involved in the life of Dartington Hall.

From 1934 Dartington became an important base for exiles fleeing Nazi 
Germany, indeed Hein Heckroth, Tobey’s successor as Director, had fled to 
Britain with his Jewish wife. Heckroth’s forced resignation as an enemy alien 
in 1940 and his subsequent internment in Australia during the war, catapulted 
Collins, exempt from military service due to longstanding ill health, into the 
position of Director.

The present work was made in preparation for an oil painting completed in 
1938, which Elisabeth Collins bequeathed to the Tate Gallery in 2001. The origins 
of The Quest have been described by William Anderson as specifically arising from 
Collin’s involvement at Dartington: 

In one instance, the stimulation at Dartington had an unintended effect. Collins had gone to 
a lecture with slides on the subject of the Arctic. The lecture was so boring he fell asleep, but 
there remained with him the images of the ice floes and a deserted land.1 

A subsequent holiday on the Dartmouth coast in the summer of 1938 reinforced 
this image: ‘the unusual view of the mere, a lake divided from the sea by a long 
sandbank, brought about a synthesis with the Arctic images, and this prompted 
him to paint The Quest with its Arthurian overtones’.2

This enigmatic work has been interpreted in several different ways. Principally, 
it has been linked with T. S. Eliot’s poem The Waste Land, with its references to 
Arthurian legend and the search for the Holy Grail. It also evokes an episode from 
Dante’s Inferno in which Dante and Virgil are ferried across the river Acheron to 
Hell. The rowing boat, rudderless and without visible means of propulsion, is set 
adrift in a threatening sea, perhaps symbolising Collins’s anxiety regarding the 
increasingly hostile political situation in contemporary Europe. HD

1. Anderson (1988) p. 49.
2. Ibid.


Fig. 58 | Cecil Collins (1908–1989), The Quest, 
1938. Oil on board. Tate, London, T07732 © Tate, 
London 2014




98

Sir Muirhead Bone 1876–1953

Low Tide on the Portsmouth Hard, 1940

Pen and ink and wash over black chalk 
on paper
39.8 x 59.3 cm
Signed and dated: Muirhead Bone / 1940
Presented by HM Government (War Artists’ 
Advisory Committee), 1947
WA1947.392
© Estate of Sir Muirhead Bone. All Rights 
Reserved, DACS 2015

During the First World War, the British government had employed a number 
of artists to record scenes in France. In 1939, as the Second World War loomed, 
Sir Kenneth Clark succeeded in establishing an official War Artists’ Advisory 
Committee. His aims were both ‘to keep artists at work on any pretext’, and 
‘to use the work produced as propaganda’.1 Initially, there were five official 
war artists: Muirhead Bone, Edward Ardizzone, Barnet Freedman, Reginald 
Eves, and Edward Bawden. Bone was the oldest, and greatly admired by Clark, 
who declared that, ‘for technical skill Bone must be the only one who can be 
compared 
with the great Italians Piranesi and Bibiena’. 

Bone was the most prominent and influential of all the war artists, having 
been the very first appointed in 1916. His training as an architect, and his 
childhood familiarity with the Clydeside docks, the Gorbals, and other outlying 
districts, enabled him to capture a scene in rapid sketches, to be worked up 
later. He was particularly pleased with his ‘splendidly generalled armies of 
dutiful details’ of shipyards on the Clyde.2 On occasion he felt that this gave 
his drawings 
a somewhat impersonal character, admitting that, ‘I do not like 
to imagine war scenes and so only drew what I saw, and this only when I had a 
chance to digest it. This limited me very much and I am afraid resulted in rather 
prosaic work’.3 Two hundred of his drawings were published in The Western Front 
(1917), which sold 30,000 copies. 

In 1940 Bone was commissioned as a major in the Royal Marines. As he 
wrote to D. S. MacColl, ‘It is a grand chance, seldom given to anybody, to 
improve on last time’.4 Once again his subjects were largely ruins, such as the 
destruction of the docks in London, or the blitzed cityscape around St Paul’s 
Cathedral, or shipping in the Firth of Forth and on the Clyde. This spectacular 
drawing of one of the most important strategic ports in the English Channel 
was presumably made some time before the first bombing of Portsmouth, 
on 11 July 1940. It exemplifies Bone’s ability to orchestrate large complex 
townscapes and industrial sites. Many figures are shown scurrying across the 
bridge to the installations beyond, skirting a huge deposit of logs, while several 
destroyers and other vessels manoeuvre in the Channel, under the protective 
cover of a host of barrage balloons. CH 

1. Weaver, O’Neill, Bawden (2008) p. 9.
2. Quoted in Harries (1983) p. 12.
3. Quoted in Bone (2009) p. 100.
4. Quoted in Bone (2009) p. 128.




99

Paul Nash 1889–1946

Under the Cliff, 1940

Watercolour and white bodycolour over 
black chalk on paper
38.7 x 56.8 cm
Signed: Paul Nash
Presented by HM Government (War Artists’ 
Advisory Committee), 1947
WA1947.408
© Tate, London 2014 

Literature: Causey (1980) no. 1041; Hall 
(1997) no. 22

While his service as an official war artist from 1917–8 assured Nash’s fame and 
changed the direction of his work, his reappointment during the Second World 
War found him imaginatively prepared and predisposed to explore his current 
themes in a new, urgent context. Eric Newton, in The Sunday Times in 1939, 
likened 
his appointment to ‘asking T. S. Eliot to cover a boxing match’, but 
Nash, with his fierce hatred of the Nazis’ aesthetic intolerance, was adamant 
that his images should be used as propaganda.1 As he insisted to Sir Kenneth 
Clark, ‘I aim at something more than a picture to be exhibited in the National 
Gallery’.2 

During the 1930s Nash had used the ‘found object’ to create a unique 
synthesis 
of Continental Surrealism and English Romanticism, exploring 
the poetic enigma of human interaction with nature. He exhibited at the 
International Surrealist Exhibition in 1936, and Henri Magritte reportedly 
regarded him as ‘Master of the Object’.3 In 1938 Nash discovered the site that 
he named ‘Monster Field’ on Carswalls Farm, near Newent, Gloucestershire. 
Here he photographed two large elms, violently felled by lightning, whose forms 
reminded him of William Blake’s Pity (c. 1795) and Pablo Picasso’s Guernica 
(1937). The elms inspired a series of works including Monster Shore (Art Gallery 
of Hamilton, Ontario), which he finished just prior to his appointment on a 
six-month contract to the Air Ministry in 1940.

Fascinated by how the stricken trees were transformed by their demise, 
Nash transferred this preoccupation to wrecked or grounded aircraft, 
conceiving 
them as objects ‘out of their element’.4 He quickly created a series 
of watercolours 
of crashed German bombers, situated within landscapes with 
which he was intensely familiar. A number of these, like Under the Cliff, feature 
the Jurassic Coast, near Swanage, which had appeared in his earlier works such 
as Event on the Downs (1934). Nash also continued to rely heavily on photographic 
images, including those of Cowley Aircraft Dump, near Oxford, the city 
to which he and his wife had moved in 1939. The high horizon of Nash’s Cowley 
photographs is recalled here in the looming cliffs. The landscape appears to 
have reared up against the invading German aircraft, obliterating all but the 
tail section, which languishes on the beach, partly submerged in the sand. 
Nash’s ‘Albion’ has defeated the forces of Fascism. The propagandist message 
is reinforced 
by the repetition of the fin shape of the tail in the monumental 
contours of the cliff face: the sheer, dominating white of the paper triumphant 
over the dark, battered machinery. KW

1. Quoted in Hall (1997) p. 7.
2. Letter from Paul Nash to Kenneth Clark, 
18 March 1940, quoted in Causey (1980) p. 308.
3. Gough (2014) p. 97.
4. ‘The Personality of Planes’, Vogue, March 1942, 
quoted in Causey (1980) p. 305.



Fig. 59 | Unknown photographer, Wrecked planes at 
Cowley Aircraft Dump, c. 1940. © reserved




100

Graham Vivian Sutherland 1903–1980

The Smelting Works, ‘Twin Ladles’, 1941

Watercolour, wax crayon and bodycolour 
over indications in graphite, with varnish, 
some pen and ink and scratching out, 
on paper
56.8 x 38.7 cm
Presented by HM Government (War Artists’ 
Advisory Committee), 1947
WA1947.416
© The Estate of Graham Sutherland

Literature: Hammer (2005) no. 57; 
Gough, Allen, Gosher (2013) p. 62

At the outbreak of the Second World War Sutherland applied to train as a 
munitions 
gauge maker. Thanks to his close friend Sir Kenneth Clark, however, 
he received an invitation to serve as an official war artist in June 1940. Tasked 
with recording bomb damage sustained in Swansea and London during the 
Blitz, he created his forcefully expressive ‘Devastation’ pictures, in which the 
contorted forms of architectural wreckage potently suggest the destruction of 
human life. 

In September 1940, Sutherland was dispatched to record steel works in 
Cardiff. This was the first of a series of commissions in which he was asked to 
portray the industries contributing to Britain’s war effort. From 1920–1, prior to 
attending Goldsmiths Art College, Sutherland had been a Privileged Apprentice 
at the Midland Railway Works, Derby. On the 80-acre site he had received 
training in precision drawing, as well as in boiler construction and repair. This 
fostered a life-long fascination with machinery, and his war work explores the 
transformation of materials in manufacturing, creating visions of industry as an 
‘eternal war; a constant conflict between the forces of man and nature’.1 He later 
described the process of steel-making as a ‘rite … being performed’.2 

Sutherland was especially drawn to the forms of the slag ladles, used for 
transporting molten waste from the blast furnaces, but it is the relationship 
between the figures and the brutal environment of the smelting works that is 
at the heart of this work. As the dwarfed figures emerge, seemingly struggling, 
their contorted poses evoke figures from seventeenth-century Old Master 
paintings such as El Greco’s The Purification of the Temple (c. 1600, National 
Gallery, London). The vivid egg-yolk yellow, carmine and sooty black recalls 
the work of William Blake, whom Sutherland had described as the paradigm 
of the imaginative artist in his Signature article of July 1936. In his pre-war 
Pembrokeshire landscapes Sutherland had employed a similar colour palette, 
but the layering of different media here evokes the intense heat and acrid 
atmosphere 
of the factory – a visceral assault on all the senses. The bold 
geometry of the design, emphasised by the grid of the ceiling and the parallel 
rails in the foreground, is countered by the swirl of the raging flames and the 
murky smoke. The exact articulation of the figures evidently caused Sutherland 
difficulties, and the drawing is patched here in three places.3 KW

1. Sutherland to Eric Newton, quoted in 
Hammer (2005) p. 31.
2. Quoted in Alley (1982) p. 97.
3. A similar sheet, Christie’s 15 November 2006, 
lot no. 196, shows the figures in an earlier, less 
resolved state.




101

Edward Bawden 1903–1989

Private Kimoi Chemeri, ?1942

Pen and brush in Indian ink, and waxy sepia 
chalk on paper
35.3 x 25.3 cm
Verso inscribed: K.A.R. Askanies / Pte. 
KIMOI CHEMERI / orderly / tribe Elgeyo / 
drawn at Adama.
Presented by HM Government (War Artists’ 
Advisory Committee), 1947
WA1947.388
© The Estate of Edward Bawden

Bawden might have seemed a surprising choice to be included among the first 
five artists appointed under the War Artists’ Advisory Scheme, since he was 
largely known for his commercial work, designing posters and advertising 
material for London Transport, Shell, and the Westminster Bank. With his 
friend Eric Ravilious, he also painted murals at Morley Working Men’s College 
in Lambeth (completed in 1930). Bawden, Ravilious and their wives moved into 
a handsome townhouse at Great Bardfield, Essex, in 1932, and began to paint 
the countryside in stylised and idiosyncratic watercolours. Although Bawden 
did not have much relevant experience, his appointment by Sir Kenneth Clark 
proved to be inspired. J. M. Richards later wrote that his war work ‘gave him 
an entirely new standing among contemporary artists … he rose powerfully 
to the translation from rural Essex to the raw strangeness of the Middle East 
endowing 
all things with a touch of poetry and peculiarity’.1

After witnessing the debacle of Dunkirk in May 1940, Bawden was posted 
in the rank of Captain to East Africa, where he remained between September 
1940 and August 1941. At first he travelled down the Nile to Khartoum and 
Omdurman, where the extreme heat obliged him to concentrate on making 
portraits 
of soldiers and natives. He then joined the campaign to liberate 
Abyssinia, which had been occupied by the Italians since 1936. Bawden’s 
was the smallest of the three parallel columns advancing on Addis Ababa, 
consisting 
only of an English colonel on a white horse, a number of officers and 
sergeants commanding 80 Abyssinian cadets, and a train of camels. ‘There was 
generally 
an uproar in which the camels joined, of course. Oh, a most enjoyable 
experience.’2 

This drawing was taken at Adama, some 60 miles south-east of Addis Ababa, 
perhaps shortly before the liberation of the capital on 5 May 1941. It shows 
Kimoi Chemeri, of the Elgeyo or Keiyo tribe of Kenya, in the uniform of a 
private 
in the Kings African Rifles. This regiment, formed by the amalgamation 
of various others in British East Africa, included a large number of ‘askaris’, 
native African soldiers. Such portraits are among Bawden’s most successful, 
though he noted that ‘When the model is the colour of a grape it is difficult 
to disassociate form and colour, more especially in the region of the cheek 
and cheek bone, a rounded expanse of fat with no geographical features andimpossible 
to map with accuracy’.3 CH

1. Richards (1946) unpaginated.
2. Harries (1983) p. 224.
3. Harries (1983) p. 226.




102

Wyndham Lewis 1882–1957

The King Plays, 1942

Black crayon, wax crayon, pen and 
Indian ink, charcoal, and bodycolour on 
wove paper
30 x 45.4 cm
Signed and dated: W. Lewis 1942 / Wyndham 
Lewis 1942–49. Inscribed verso: The King Plays
Presented by Mrs Bronia Steiner, 2011
WA2011.170
© The Wyndham Lewis Memorial Trust / 
Bridgeman Images

Literature: Michel (1971) no. 995

The publication of the first issue of Blast magazine in 1914 proposed a new and 
specifically English avant-garde. The intention was to ‘blast’ British culture out 
of its complacent mediocrity, and promote Vorticism as the way forward. As the 
prime instigator, Wyndham Lewis was well placed to further this manifesto. 
Always an outsider, he was equally influential as a writer and an artist, and fully 
informed of all the latest developments in Europe as well as England. He had 
studied at the Slade School and then in several European capitals, and exhibited 
with the Camden Town Group, but did not fit in. In his search for a modern 
figurative art, Lewis experimented with French Cubism, Italian Futurism, 
and German Expressionism, before settling on Vorticism, whose principles 
he applied to both images and text. In his paintings and drawings, 
the forms 
became fragmented and geometric, being theoretically based on the idea of the 
vortex as the point of maximum energy. 

During the 1920s, Lewis began to feel that geometric shapes were ‘bleak and 
empty’, and he added portraiture to his repertoire, painting and drawing such 
figures as Edith Sitwell and James Joyce.1 His reputation suffered severely when 
he published an article in praise of Adolf Hitler in 1931, and, although he later 
repudiated his views, he felt obliged to cross the Atlantic, spending a dreary 
year in New York before moving to the ‘sanctimonious icebox’ of Toronto in 
December 1940.2 

In spite of loneliness and isolation, Lewis enjoyed a brilliantly creative period 
over the next two years. His drawings became increasingly personal, and were 
often on religious themes. This evocation of King David, the most musical 
of Old Testament monarchs and the author of many of the Psalms, playing 
the harp to a disparate group of courtiers, reflects Lewis’s long interest in the 
theatre. Indeed, the sloping ground and enclosed space give the impression 
of a stage set, with the viewer sitting above, an impression emphasised by 
‘
prompter’s box’ at the front, and the strange figure on the right, whose eyes 
resemble binoculars. 

This drawing belonged to Robert Lewin (1918–2004), one of the most 
distinguished 
dealers in avant-garde art in London, and founder of the 
Brook Street Gallery in Mayfair; it was presented to the Ashmolean by his 
sister-in-
law. CH

1. Quoted in Richard Cork, ‘Lewis (Percy) 
Wyndham (1882–1957)’, Oxford Dictionary 
of National Biography, online edn. (2010), 
http://www.oxforddnb.com/view/
article/34517?docPos=2, accessed 6 February 
2015.
2. Quoted in Edwards (1992) p. 48.




103

William Gear 1915–1997

Palestine Scrapbook – Costume Notes No.2, July 1943

Pen and ink and watercolour on paper
24.4 x 32.5 x 0.7 cm (volume), open at fol. 3
Inscribed on front cover: PALESTINE / 
SCRAP BOOK / July – 1943 / COSTUME NOTES 
/ No 2. Signed: WG. Drawing inscribed: BAB 
EL WADI and with colour and other notes
Lent from a private collection
LI2202.6
© The William Gear Estate

The son of a coal miner, Bill Gear was born in Methil, Fife, in 1915. By dint of 
considerable natural talent nurtured by successive teachers, he was able to study 
at the Edinburgh College of Art, supported by a grant from Fife Education 
Authority with financial assistance from the Miners’ Welfare Fund and the 
Carnegie Trust. The curriculum was rigidly traditional, with a highly disciplined 
emphasis on drawing for the first two years and painting only in the third and 
fourth years. A postgraduate scholarship allowed Gear to continue working 
independently, as well as to study the history of art at Edinburgh University. 
During this period he spent a year abroad, in Paris, including three months at 
Fernand Léger’s académie in Montparnasse in 1937, as well as spending time in 
Italy, Greece, and the Balkans. Later that year he graduated with a first class 
degree, followed by a teacher training course in Edinburgh.

Like many of his generation, Gear’s artistic career was interrupted by military 
service. He was teaching in Dumfriesshire when he received his call-up papers 
in May 1940. Assigned to the Royal Corps of Signals, he was quickly selected as 
officer material and, after a spell at the Officers’ Training Unit at Aldershot, was 
despatched to the Middle East, initially to Cairo, and subsequently to Palestine. 
His biographer, John McEwen, has commented that ‘it was darkly ironic that 
Palestine, that country of ceaseless conflict, enjoyed virtually undisturbed 
peace’ during the war.1 Gear’s duties allowed him ample time for drawing 
and painting.

This charming scrapbook, a combination of visual diary and assorted 
memorabilia, 
including a ticket for Gear’s own exhibition at the Museum 
Tel-Aviv, is carefully annotated and provides a glimpse into the leisure time of 
a young officer on leave. Most of the drawings date from early July 1943. They 
include landscapes, as well as street scenes and figure studies in Jerusalem. 
Although some of Gear’s work had a surrealist tone at this period, these 
drawings 
have no such quality; they reveal a fluent and grounded drawing style, 
with an assured sense of colour.

The subject of this drawing, Bab-El-Wadi, ‘the Valley Gate’, lies on the road 
from Tel-Aviv to Jerusalem, where there is a narrow defile between a series of 
ridges. Owing to its strategic location, Bab-El-Wadi was the site of notorious 
ambushes and clashes, both during the Arab uprising of 1936–9 and the War of 
Independence in 1948. HD

1. McEwen (2003) p. 19.



Fig. 60 | William Gear (1915–1997), Page from 
‘Palestine Scrapbook’ showing tickets, facing ‘Bab-El-
Wadi’, July 1943. Private Collection © The William 
Gear Estate




104

David Garshen Bomberg 1890–1957

Evening in the City of London, 1944

Charcoal on paper
46.4 x 59 cm
Signed and dated: Bomberg 44
Presented by Mr and Mrs James Newmark 
in memory of the artist, through the 
Contemporary Art Society, 1981
WA1981.606
© The Estate of David Bomberg. All rights 
reserved, DACS 2015

Literature: Cork (1988) no. 158

The son of Polish Jewish immigrants, Bomberg was one of the most audaciously 
experimental artists to attend the Slade School prior to 1914. Flirting with 
Vorticism, he produced works simplifying the human figure in extremely 
geometric 
terms within Cubist-inspired splintered perspectives, declaring, 
‘I want to translate the life of a great city, its motion, its machinery, into an art 
that shall not be photographic, but expressive’.1 Despite successive changes of 
style, a strong formal sense of the cityscape continued to dominate his work in 
locations as diverse as Jerusalem, Toledo, and Ronda.

Bomberg’s active service during the First World War left him profoundly 
disillusioned 
with the Machine Age. Despite his urgent desire for work, his 
services 
were twice rejected by the War Artists’ Advisory Committee before 
he was awarded a token commission in February 1942 of 35 guineas for a 
painting 
of the subterranean bomb store near Burton-on-Trent. Bomberg’s 
painting, dwelling 
upon the appalling destructiveness inherent in the 
accumulated 
weaponry, 
was rejected by the WAAC, which instead accepted 
three charcoal drawings. 

Such treatment was typical of the dispiriting artistic neglect Bomberg 
suffered 
for much of his career. 1944 found him giving drawing instruction 
to gun crews in Hyde Park and serving as a firewatcher in Kensington, having 
applied unsuccessfully for over 300 teaching positions during the previous 
five years. He secured permission to sketch St Paul’s from the church of St 
Mary-le-Bow, at great risk as the timing of air-raids was always unpredictable. 
The survival of Christopher Wren’s cathedral had become a symbol of British 
defiance in the face of the brutal bombardment of the Blitz. Bomberg handled 
his favourite drawing medium with vehement urgency; jagged sooty strokes 
delineating the charred skeleton of the city. To the right stands the tower of 
St Vedast-alias-Foster, another Wren church, gutted by a devastating raid 
in December 1940. The curved dome of St Paul’s resiliently presides over 
the otherwise 
fractured angularity of the scene. The cathedral’s prominence 
might also represent Bomberg himself, but it equally chimes with his 
insistence that fostering spiritual life could combat an increasingly menacing 
mechanised culture.2 

This drawing was one of a series depicting the London Blitz-scape that 
Bomberg hoped to turn into a book with John Rodker of the Imago Press. Sadly, 
his drawings were not deemed topographically accurate enough to be of interest 
to the general public. Nonetheless, this work served as preparation for an oil 
painting displayed in the London Group exhibition of 1944 and praised by Ivon 
Hitchens as ‘the only painter’s painting of bombed London he had seen.’ 3 KW

1. Jewish Chronicle 8 May 1914, quoted in Cork 
(1988) p. 17.
2. See Cork (1988) p. 49.
3. David Bomberg to Lilian Bomberg, 13 October 
1944. Tate Gallery Archive.



Fig. 61 | David Bomberg (1890–1957), Evening in 
the City of London, 1944. Oil on canvas. Museum of 
London, 85.219 © Museum of London




105

Graham Vivian Sutherland 1903–1980

Thorn Head, 1945

Indian ink, black crayon, grey wash and 
gum arabic on discoloured laid paper
24.2 x 18.5 cm
Signed and dated: Sutherland 1945
Inscribed: To Curt / January 10th 1945
Bequeathed by Paul Clark, 2010
WA2010.11
© The Estate of Graham Sutherland 

Literature: Shaw (2011) p. 94

In early 1944 Sutherland attended the unveiling of Henry Moore’s sculpture of 
the Virgin and Child in St Matthew’s Church, Northampton. Its commissioner, 
Revd Walter Hussey, proposed that Sutherland undertake a painting of Christ’s 
Agony in the Garden to be displayed in the opposite transept. Sutherland 
suggested instead that he tackle the Crucifixion. 

Sutherland converted to Roman Catholicism in 1926, shortly before his 
marriage. 
He later described how this gave him the ‘conception of a system 
whereby all things created, human and otherwise … are integrated’.1 The 
Crucifixion embodied both agonising tragedy and redemptive salvation. In 
the wake of the atrocities of the Second World War it became for many artists, 
including Sutherland’s friend Francis Bacon, an expression of horror. Yet 
Sutherland found the duality of the image compelling. Describing the genesis 
of his Thorn pictures to Curt Valentin of the Buchholz Gallery, New York (to 
whom this drawing is dedicated), Sutherland emphasised his preoccupation 
with the St Matthew’s commission and the Crown of Thorns. In spring 1945, 
revisiting the Pembrokeshire countryside that had been integral to his work 
since 1934, he noticed thorns ‘like dividers pricking out points in space in all 
directions’.2 This galvanised his imagination, and he produced a series of thorn 
trees and heads, according to his customary self-termed ‘paraphrasing’, or in 
this case ‘pruning’, of his natural observations, creating a lasting addition to his 
pictorial vocabulary.3

While Thorn Head undoubtedly suggests aggressive cruelty, the form also 
stems from Sutherland’s pre-war paintings, including Entrance to a Lane (1939) 
and his images of roots as meditations on organic growth. Such a synthesis of 
forms is typical of Sutherland’s work, echoed in his orchestration of influences 
as diverse as Picasso’s Guernica (1937) and Grünewald’s Isenheim Altarpiece 
(c. 1515). The application of gum arabic gives the darkest areas a scorched, 
gleaming 
appearance reminiscent of the ‘gorse burnt and blackened after fire’, 
which delighted Sutherland in the Pembrokeshire landscape.4 Attempting to 
follow the progressive construction of the motif, the viewer is immersed in 
the mysterious, improvisatory vitality of the drawing, in which sickle-shaped 
elements 
are juxtaposed with angular spikes. The result is a disquieting 
exploration 
of the ‘precarious tension of opposites’.5 KW

Fig. 62 | Graham Sutherland (1903–1980), 
The Crucifixion, 1946. Oil on hardboard. 
St Matthew’s Church, Northampton 
© Saint Matthew’s Church, Northampton, 
Northamptonshire, UK / Bridgeman Images / 
The Estate of Graham Sutherland



Fig. 63 | Graham Sutherland (1903–1980), Thorn 
Head, 1947. Oil on canvas. Private Collection. 
Photograph courtesy of Sotheby’s Picture Library 
© The Estate of Graham Sutherland
1. Conversation reported by Robert Melville, 
World Review, February 1952, quoted in Hammer 
(2005) p. 171.
2. Sutherland to Curt Valentin, 24 January 1946, 
quoted in Hammer (2005) p. 156.
3. The elimination of unnecessary elements to 
construct his Thorn paintings was described by 
Sutherland ‘almost as if one had taken a pruning 
knife’ in The Listener 68, 1962, quoted in Alley 
(1982) p. 174.
4. Sutherland in Horizon, April 1942, quoted in 
Hammer (2005) p. 70.
5. Sutherland, ‘Thoughts on Painting’, The 
Listener, 6 September 1951, quoted in Hammer 
(2005) p. 145.




106

Keith Vaughan 1912–1977

Two Gardeners, 1946

Bodycolour and Indian ink on paper
26 x 35 cm
Signed and dated: Keith Vaughan 1946
Lent from a private collection
LI2202.1
© The Estate of Keith Vaughan. All rights 
reserved, DACS 2015

Keith Vaughan had little in the way of formal artistic training, despite showing 
great promise in his school years. Instead of going to art school, he joined the 
Art Department of Lintas, the advertising section of Unilever, from which 
he resigned on the outbreak of war in 1939. He entered the war period in his 
twenty-
seventh year, ‘alone, with no very great liking for life, without much 
ambition for the things most people pursue, but simply a dumb and mule-like 
persistence in continuing the struggle’.1

When his call-up papers arrived, Vaughan registered as a conscientious 
objector. 
After his tribunal he was assigned to the Pioneer Corps, initially doing 
heavy manual work in the countryside. From 1943 he helped to establish a 
prisoner of war camp for captured German soldiers, where he acted successively 
as a clerk and an interpreter. These years, among the happiest of his life, brought 
Vaughan into close contact with working men. As he was later to note, ‘I believe 
a painter has only one basic idea which probably lasts him a life time. Mine is the 
human figure’.2 Any landscape setting for the figures, as in Two Gardeners, was 
used as a vehicle for mood and atmosphere. In this he owed much to Graham 
Sutherland, whom he met during the war and who, apart from Palmer, Blake, 
and Cézanne, was perhaps the greatest influence on his artistic development 
until he reached his maturity.

Between 1941 and 1946 Vaughan produced well over 400 works in bodycolour. 
These were all small, intensely worked pieces which relied for their 
effects on the quick-drying properties of the medium, and the manner in 
which it can be washed over water-resistant crayon or drawn over in Indian ink 
when dry. In Two Gardeners we see two dimly-lit figures portrayed in an almost 
monotone 
colour range; they emerge from an even darker background in which 
there are hints of a building and a lifeless tree. As a critic of the New York Times 
wrote on reviewing an exhibition in 1948, ‘[Vaughan’s] chief discovery is a 
particular vision of the human form as a piece of landscape’.3 HD

1. Vaughan (1966) p. 11.
2. Barber (1954) p. 79.
3. New York Times, 15 February 1948.




107

John Francis Minton 1917–1957

Young Fellow Asleep in a Barn, 1946

Pen and ink and wash laid on card
25.1 x 35.6 cm
Signed and dated: John Minton 1946 
Inscribed: To Malcolm for Christmas
Bequeathed by A. L. Rowse, 1998
WA1998.56
© Royal College of Art

While they were students at the St John’s Wood School of Art, John Minton and 
Michael Ayrton (1921–1975) read James Thrall Soby’s influential book, After 
Picasso (1935), which showed a route back to progressive figurative painting. 
They studied and imitated the work of the Paris-based Neo-Romantics, notably 
Pavel Tchelitchew, and the Surrealists such as Giorgio de Chirico. 

With the beginning of the Second World War, Minton declared himself 
a conscientious 
objector, but in December 1941, he relented and joined the 
Pioneer Corps. In early 1943, while he was stationed in North Wales, a friend 
sent him a copy of Horizon magazine with an article by Graham Sutherland 
on his ‘Welsh Sketch Book’, which led Minton towards a more recognisably 
English tradition. Sutherland himself was deeply indebted to Samuel Palmer’s 
works of the Shoreham period, intensely poetic visions of the English 
countryside 
executed in a dazzlingly unorthodox technique. On his discharge 
from the army in June 1943, Minton would no doubt have seen reproductions 
in an earlier issue of Horizon of two of Palmer’s sepia drawings of 1825, then 
newly acquired by the Ashmolean Museum. One of them, The Valley Thick with 
Corn, showing a poet in a landscape, inspired numerous tributes from younger 
artists. For a brief period, from 1943 to 1946, Minton’s work reflected his love 
of the English countryside and of Palmer’s depictions of it. As Ayrton wrote in 
his seminal account of British Drawings (1946), ‘Minton is English and Palmer 
shines through him, but his work is personal none the less’.1 

While living in London with two fellow artists, Robert Colquhoun and 
Robert MacBryde, Minton made expeditions to Kent and Cornwall. He 
produced a series of landscapes inspired by Palmer, highly wrought, idealised, 
with compressed perspective, and usually incorporating a single male figure. 
The scenes were often illuminated by moonlight, for, as he joked, ‘moons are in! 
Half-moons are really selling this year!’2 Young Fellow Asleep in a Barn is one of 
the last of these pastoral idylls, a timeless evocation of rest after labour. Minton 
adapted the composition of the great barn with double doors beside a twisting 
road for an illustration to Alain Fournier’s Le Grand Meaulnes, translated as 
The Wanderer and published by Paul Elek in 1947.3 CH

1. Quoted by Colin Harrison in Vaughan, Barker, 
Harrison (2005), p. 59.
2. Quoted in Martin, Butlin, Meyrick (2007), 
p. 95.
3. Repr. in Spalding (2005) p. 116.




108

Bryan Wynter 1915–1975

Tin Mines, 1947

Monotype ground with added bodycolour, 
stencil and woodcut on paper
22.3 x 28.5 cm
Signed and dated: Wynter 47
Lent from a private collection
LI2202.3
© Estate of Bryan Wynter. All rights 
reserved, DACS 2015

Having spent five years struggling to conform to his father’s wish that he 
succeed 
him in the family business, Bryan Wynter was already 23 when he 
began his studies at the Slade School in 1938. He was still studying there when 
the School was evacuated to Oxford in 1940. When his call-up papers arrived, 
he registered as a conscientious objector. Wynter spent a dispiriting war, first 
engaged in land work and later looking after laboratory animals (especially 
Rhesus monkeys) housed for vivisection in the Department of Anatomy, 
Oxford, under Solly (later Lord) Zuckerman. At night he was regularly posted 
on fire-watching duty in the Ashmolean Museum. 

After the end of the war in 1945 Wynter left for St Ives, a place he had known 
for some years. He quickly found ‘The Carn’, an isolated granite cottage with 
no running water or electricity, on the windswept moors above Zennor. It was 
to be his home until 1960. He became absorbed into the artistic community 
in St Ives, and was closely associated with artists such as Peter Lanyon, Patrick 
Heron, Adrian Ryan, and John Wells. He was a founder member of the Crypt 
Group (1946) and the Penwith Society of Artists (1949). 

Wynter was continually making things, and his work displays great evidence 
of having been crafted and improvised. Indeed, Tin Mines raises fundamental 
questions about the definition of a drawing, so varied are the techniques he 
used in its creation. From 1946 to 1952 his work was mainly small in scale and 
mixed in media, often incorporating a monotype as a ground, and frequently 
using transfer drawing, so that the basic elements of a work could be resolved 
before printing. Here, Wynter has used a variety of techniques to build up the 
image. The sea, for example, is monoprinted using a piece of wood with a light 
wash, so that the grain of the wood shows up as the waves in the harbour. He 
has also used stencils, most notably to produce the foliage effect at the lower 
right. This image is an evocation rather than a naturalistic representation, the 
most striking 
elements being the chimneys of the tin mines, an immediately 
recognisable 
element of the Cornish landscape. Every building is in a state of 
dereliction, a melancholy addition to the images of ruin that proliferated during 
and after the Second World War. HD



109

William Gear 1915–1997

Paysage, 1947

Mixed media on monotype ground
30 x 49 cm
Signed and dated: Gear / 47
Lent from a private collection
LI2202.4
© The William Gear Estate

Paysage is a transitional drawing. Made in Germany in early 1947, it reveals a 
dramatic change from the naturalistic style evident in Palestine Scrapbook, July 
1943 (cat. 103). Within another year Gear’s work was to become completely 
abstract, and would remain so for the rest of his life.

Following VE Day on 8 May 1945, Gear was posted at his own request to 
Germany. He was quickly seconded to the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives 
department of Control Commission, with responsibility for safeguarding 
Germany’s cultural heritage. There he was exposed to German Expressionist art 
and established close links with Karl Otto Götz, a German artist who worked in 
an Expressionist, Surrealist style. Gear soon began utilising black armatures as 
a framework, as in Paysage. The sources of the armatures was likely to have been 
‘subconscious memories of the pit-head winding gear; the engineering marvel 
of the Forth Bridge … and silhouetted trees on that stormy coast [of Fife]’.1 

It was in 1945, while on leave in London, that he was reintroduced to 
monotype 
by Jankel Adler (1895–1949). Adler was a Polish wartime refugee who 
had himself learned the technique from Paul Klee when the two had adjacent 
studios in Düsseldorf in the early 1930s. For a time in the late 1940s, Gear used 
monotype as a ground in mixed media works, often in combination with oil 
transfer drawing, bodycolour, and pen and ink. He would establish the ‘drawing’ 
in monochrome and then rework the image, building up the textures of the 
monotype with bodycolour. In Paysage, the monotype and transfer drawing are 
clearly visible, providing depth, texture and structure, on to which pen and ink 
have been added in sweeps of black. Bodycolour has also been applied, in strong, 
clashing colours. Gear’s purpose was to convey mood as well as destruction in 
this fractured landscape.

Demobbed in 1947, Gear went straight to Paris, becoming one of only two 
British artists to exhibit with CoBrA between 1947 and 1950. After returning 
to Britain, he went on to have a distinguished career, both as Curator of the 
Towner Art Gallery, Eastbourne (1958–64), and Head of the Faculty of Fine Art, 
Birmingham College of Art (1964–75). HD

1. Tessa Sidey, National Sound Archive, 1995, 
quoted in McEwen (2003) p. 7.




110

John Piper 1903–1992

The Abbey from the Churchyard, Arbroath, 1982

Brush in Indian ink with watercolour, 
bodycolour and coloured chalks on paper 
57.7 x 67.5 cm
Signed: John Piper
Bequeathed by Robert and Rena Lewin, 
2004
WA2006.21
© The Piper Estate / DACS 2015

Literature: Jenkins (1992) no. 39

Piper’s distinguished career ranged over six decades and proved prodigiously 
diverse. As an artist he produced paintings, graphic work and collages, as well 
as designs for the theatre, stained glass, ceramics, and textiles. He was also a 
writer and editor, and with John Betjeman had a long-standing involvement in 
the Shell Guides. Although Piper embraced a variety of subjects, he was primarily 
an artist of the genius loci and particularly responsive to architecture, claiming in 
1962 that his work was based upon ‘a feeling for places … just going somewhere, 
anywhere really, – and trying to see what hasn’t been seen before’.1

In 1934 Piper was elected to the 7 & 5 Society and at the forefront of the 
British avant-garde. Four years later, however, he pronounced abstraction 
a ‘
luxury’ that could be ill-afforded in the hostile world of contemporary 
European politics.2 His abandonment of pure abstraction was cemented by his 
appointment as an official war artist; he was assigned to make images of bomb 
sites, including the shattered remains of Coventry Cathedral in November 
1940. Inspired by J. M. W. Turner and John Sell Cotman, Piper attempted in his 
own idiom what Paul Nash and Eric Ravilious pursued in theirs: the union of 
British Romanticism with European Modernism.

Scotland was a country little explored by Piper, but during the last decade 
of his life he created a series of images of Arbroath Abbey, near Dundee, a 
significant 
site for Scottish history owing to the Declaration of Arbroath in 
1320. This large watercolour served as a study for one of two monumental oil 
paintings, while a monochrome watercolour of the same view was issued as a 
screenprint in 1988.3 The looming ruins of the late-twelfth to early-thirteenth-
century abbey appear theatrically lit against a thunderous sky. The attenuated 
fragments are crowded by obelisks and grave monuments, one of which has 
been elongated to pierce the iconic round window of the south transept. 
Truncating the nave and rotating the east end through 90 degrees enabled 
Piper to include all the abbey church’s most distinctive elements; these are 
concentrated 
together while the swift brushwork suggests a perilous dissolution 
of architectural forms. The oil painting retains a striking sense of drama, but 
softens the urgent anguish of the watercolour with greater topographical 
clarity in the transept arcading and more solidly rooted structures. The present 
drawing, a troubled meditation on impending mortality is nonetheless a 
bravura performance full of the calligraphic verve and the revelling in weathered 
surfaces that characterises Piper’s finest work. KW

1. The Sunday Times, quoted in Ingrams and Piper 
(1983) p. 9.
2. Quoted in Jenkins and Spalding (2003) p. 48.
3. Watercolour, Ruined Church, Arbroath (c. 1982), 
Christie’s 17 November 2006, sale 7277, lot 70; 
screenprint, Arbroath Abbey, Levinson (1996) 
no. 407.



Fig. 64 | John Piper (1903–1992), Arbroath, c. 1987. 
Oil on canvas. Image courtesy of Waddington 
Custot Gallery © The Piper Estate / DACS 2015




111

Colin Self b. 1941

Four Studies for ‘Victims of Hiroshima’, 1966

Pen and ink, wash and charcoal on letter 
paper with bodycolour and oil paint 
on paper 
29.5 x 25.5 x 3.7 cm and 29.5 x 17 x 3.7 cm
Signed and dated: Colin Self / 3-4-66 / 16-3-66 
/ 30-6-66 / 3-6-66
Lent from a private collection
LI2202.5
© Colin Self. All rights reserved, DACS 2015

The art of Colin Self has always been difficult to categorise. Early in his career, 
he was labelled as a Pop artist, but his path has been so quirky and idiosyncratic, 
and his work at times so preoccupied with political themes, that he has never 
properly fitted into Richard Hamilton’s famous summary of Pop Art as 
‘Popular / Expendable / Low Cost / Mass Produced / Young / Witty / Sexy / 
Gimmicky / Glamorous / Big Business’. 

Coming from a large working-class family in Norwich, Self studied at the 
Norwich School of Art and the Slade School (1961–3). Pop Art represented for 
him ‘both a specifically working-class rebellion against obscurantism’ and ‘the 
first movement for goodness knows how long, to accept and reflect the world in 
which it lives’.1

A long visit to the USA in 1965, in particular his reaction to New York, 
fostered 
a new nuclear theme in Self’s work, notably in his Fallout Shelter 
drawings. However, it was while he was in Santa Monica, California, together 
with David Hockney, Patrick Prockter, and Norman Stevens, that he conceived 
the idea of Beach Girl, a sculpture of a young woman as a charred corpse, dead 
on a beach as a result of a nuclear explosion. He worked on this theme in 1966 
following his return to Britain, and the principal picture is now in the Imperial 
War Museum. Self’s preoccupation had its roots in his adolescence, as he later 
explained:

I spent my teenage years … having been psychologically devastated by the preachings of 
Bertrand Russell and thought Armageddon would have exploded its nuclear end when 
he predicted. By 1967 or 8. For seven years I worked towards that end, thinking the most 
civilised thing we could do (with what time was left) would be a ‘record’ of ‘how come’ the 
world ended? 2

The four studies for Victims of Hiroshima were executed at much the same time, 
and were based on photographs of casualties of the Hiroshima bombing in 
1945. Instead of the glamorous female icons so familiar from glossy magazines 
and typical of Pop Art, Self presents us with images of appallingly mutilated 
women, the victims of nuclear warfare. HD

1. Letter from Colin Self to Marco Livingstone, 
1 December 1987, quoted in Livingstone (1990) 
p. 162.
2. Letter from Colin Self to Marco Livingstone, 
23 September 1987; Livingstone (1990) p. 257.




112

David Hockney b. 1937

Henry writing, Lucca, 1973

Pen and black ink on white paper
43.1 x 35.4 cm
Signed: D.H. Inscribed and dated: Henry 
writing / Lucca. Aug 73
Presented by the Friends of the Ashmolean, 
to commemorate Lord Bullock’s 
Chairmanship of the Friends, 1976–96, 
1996
WA1996.28
© David Hockney

Literature: Brown (2013) no. 71 

Picasso’s death in April 1973 may have inspired Hockney to create this 
wonderfully 
fluid line drawing a few months later by way of homage, reigniting 
the admiration he had felt for Picasso’s work at the Tate Gallery retrospective 
exhibition of 1960. An etching of similar date, Artist and Model (1973–4), shows 
a naked Hockney sitting opposite the Spanish master across a table, using 
spare, clean lines akin to those employed in this portrait of Henry Geldzahler 
(1935–1994), art critic and curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, 
New York.

Andy Warhol first introduced the young Hockney to Geldzahler in 1963. They 
became close friends, staying together while on holiday in the summer of 1973 at 
a villa in Lucca. Hockney produced a number of drawings of Henry in the 1970s, 
many in pared-down style, showing him in relaxed poses – lounging with his leg 
over a tubular modern chair, sitting cross-legged on a sofa smoking a cigar, or 
buried deep in an armchair reading a book. He is most often shown with one leg 
crossed over the other, as here, in what must have been a characteristic posture.1 

Flowing over the sheet with apparently effortless control, Hockney’s fine 
pen line is economical and elegant. Longer phrasing lines contrast with short, 
staccato strokes in the hair and beard, with repeated rhythmical striping in 
the T-shirt and chair seat. The barest indications suggest a spatial context – a 
diagonal bottom left and two vertical lines framing Henry’s profile – while the 
curlicue of Henry’s bottom lip is wittily repeated in his slightly bulging waistline, 
as well as in the typewriter and carving of the chair and table leg. Hands raised 
above the keyboard in a moment of thought or suspended animation, Henry is 
recorded in the process of creating Hockney on Hockney, first published in 1976. 
His body appears in repose while his mind is clearly in motion. 

Although Hockney is famed for experimenting with bold colour, he has 
always practised draughtsmanship as a disciplined exercise in observing 
and recording. This may reflect his early training at the Royal College of Art 
(1959–62). Following a minor stroke, Hockney has recently returned once again 
to drawing, using charcoal rather than pen and ink as a medium. In an exhibition 
catalogue of 2014 he emphasises his continuing loyalty to the use of black 
and white on paper: ‘The Chinese say black and white contains colour, and so it 
can.’ Declaring that his stroke has not affected his ability to draw, but has made 
him concentrate all the more, he writes, ‘I’m OK so long as I can draw’.2 CP

1. Luckhardt and Melia (1995) nos. 87, 97; 
Livingstone and Heymer (2003) pp. 98–107.
2. Annely Juda (2014) preface.




113

Frank Auerbach b. 1931

Head of Julia, 1985–6

Charcoal and chalk on paper
92.7 x 76.2 cm
Signed and dated: Auerbach / 85 – 86
Accepted by HM Government in lieu of 
Inheritance Tax on the estate of Lucian 
Freud and allocated to the Ashmolean 
Museum, 2015
wa2015.6

Literature: Lampert, Rosenthal, 
Carlisle (2001) no. 108

Although he studied at St Martin’s School of Art (1948–52) and then at the 
Royal College of Art (1952–5), Auerbach learnt most from the weekly life classes 
held by David Bomberg at the Borough Polytechnic. Like Bomberg himself, 
Auerbach began to draw in charcoal on large sheets of paper, working quickly 
because the models did not hold their poses for long periods. Since then, he 
has worked obsessively, for ten hours a day, every day of the week, his only 
interruptions being a weekly visit to the National Gallery. His range of subjects 
is deliberately limited, the majority being portraits of sitters familiar to him, and 
landscapes near his studio in Camden Town. Auerbach has intently studied a 
succession of models, the principal being Estella Olive West (EOW) from 1948 
to 1973, his cousin, Gerda Boehm, and Julia Yardley Mills. In the late 1970s, he 
began to use other models, sometimes for only one or two works, often for a 
long series. One constant presence has been that of Julia Wolstenholme, whom 
he met when they were studying at the Royal College of Art; they were married 
in 1958.

Robert Hughes has vividly described Auerbach’s working method when 
drawing a portrait. He habitually uses two sheets of stout paper glued together, 
pinned to an easel. 

As he scribbles and saws at the paper, the sticks of willow charcoal snap; they make 
cracking 
sounds like a tooth breaking on a bone. When he scrubs the paper with a rag 
clouds of black dust fly … The studio is like a colliery; the drawing easel is black and 
exquisitely glossy from years of carbon dust mixed with hand-grease.

As the portrait develops, sometimes over a period of weeks, ‘the creature will 
mutate, becoming dense and troll-like one day and dissolving in furioso passages 
of hatching the next’ but ‘in the end, the likeness is retrieved, but as a ghost, the 
colour of very tarnished silver’.1 

Auerbach worked on this portrait of Julia over many sittings, adding and 
subtracting 
lines in charcoal and chalk not simply to create a likeness of his wife, 
but to capture her character, and only with the final thick strokes emphatically 
defining her hair, face, and neck. It was one of the representative collection 
of 40 works by the artist owned by his friend, the painter Lucian Freud 
(1922–2011), which has recently been distributed to museums and galleries 
throughout the United Kingdom. 

1. Hughes (1990) p. 15.




114

Tom Phillips b. 1937

Salman Rushdie, 1993

Charcoal, pastel, black and red bodycolour, 
brown mud bound in Liquitex Matte 
medium on white paper
70 x 55.8 cm
Inscribed: NOT TO SHUT UP / TO SING ON 
Purchased (Vaughan and Blakiston Funds) 
with the assistance of The Art Fund and the 
MLA/V&A Purchase Grant Fund, 2009
WA2009.81
© Tom Phillips. All rights reserved, 
DACS 2015

Tom Phillips first turned to portrait painting in the 1980s, and in 1992–3 
created several portraits of the author Sir Salman Rushdie (b. 1947), partly in 
response to the fatwa issued by the Ayatollah Khomeini following publication 
of his controversial 
novel, The Satanic Verses (1988).1 A large head-and-shoulders 
lithograph of Rushdie bears an ancient cuneiform inscription which translates 
as 
‘How can we say what blasphemy is; we do not know the thoughts of the Gods’.2 
A further lithograph (fig. 65) shows Rushdie wearing a T-shirt emblazoned 
‘JACK 
HUGHES’, standing before a portrait of Captain Dreyfus, the falsely imprisoned 
Jewish army officer famously defended in Emile Zola’s letter ‘J’accuse’ (1898).

In this, the most powerful of the portraits, Rushdie’s image is almost 
obliterated 
by the scratched lines and savagely overlaid marks of charcoal, pastel 
and thick black paint. Over the surface is spattered red-brick mud – a novel 
drawing medium. It is dripped in trails and smeared across the paper in a manner 
reminiscent of Jackson Pollock. The inscription on the portrait is taken from 
Rushdie’s poem entitled ‘6 March 1989’, the date of the fatwa, first published in 
Granta (autumn 1989): ‘Still, nameless-and-faceless or not, here’s my choice: / 
not to shut up. To sing on’. 

The second verse of the poem describes the imagined violence done to 
Rushdie’s face by his attackers, who have poked out his eyes and knocked out 
his teeth so he can barely recall how his face used to look. Phillips’s drawing 
expresses the anger of this poem, conveying the damage done to Rushdie’s image 
by his detractors while endorsing his right to speak out against the ‘mud-slinging’. 
Despite the artist’s ‘attack’ on his subject, employing all the media he can 
throw at him, the face remains recognisably that of Rushdie, stoically enduring 
the onslaught.

In his description of the sittings for these portraits, however, Phillips appears 
far from angry. He remembers Rushdie as ‘a fearsome table-tennis opponent’ 
rather than as a tortured man of letters, despite his virtual house arrest while 
confined under police protection.3 Rushdie and Phillips collaborated on a limited 
edition artist’s book entitled Merely Connect (1993), which incorporated some of 
these wittily defiant political portraits. CP

1. Paschal (1992) pp. 176–7.
2. Ashmolean Museum, WA1993.468.
3. http://www.tomphillips.co.uk/works/
portraits/item/5453-salman-rushdie, accessed 
9 January 2015; Hurrell (1997) p. 20.



Fig. 65 | Tom Phillips (b. 1937), Salman Rushdie as 
DIY Zola, 1993. Colour lithograph. Ashmolean 
Museum, Oxford, WA1993.469 © Tom Phillips. 
All rights reserved, DACS 2015




Caricature
& Satire

A British Sense
of Humour

Detail from Edward Ardizzone, 
A Homage to Jock Cumberlege (cat. 129)



115

Francis Barlow ?1626–1704

The Fox and the Eagle, 1667–8

Pen and black ink with grey wash on paper, 
many of the outlines incised for transfer 
25.4 x 18.4 cm
Bequeathed by Francis Douce, 1834
WA1863.997

Literature: Hodnett (1978) pp. 197, 202; 
Brown (1982) no. 59

According to George Vertue, Barlow had originally intended to become a 
portrait painter, but quickly realised that ‘his fancy did not lye that way, his 
Genious leading him wholly to drawing Fowl, Fish, and Beasts’.1 By 1656 he was 
described by the diarist John Evelyn as ‘the famous Paynter of fowle, Beastes 
and Birds’.2 Barlow was the first British-born specialist in this genre, though 
better known for drawings and prints than for oil paintings. His work was 
based on a long and scientific study of his animal subjects, and an exceptional 
familiarity 
with their behaviour and environment. He was nevertheless aware 
of his predecessors, 
and used their prints for more exotic animals, specimens 
of which were not available in London. Among his series of prints of birds, 
only one seems to have been engraved by Barlow’s own hand, the grandiosely 
entitled Multae et diversae avium species multifarijs formis et pernaturalebus 
figures 
(reprinted in 1671). Similar collections of his drawings engraved by other artists 
circulated widely. 

Barlow’s most celebrated plates are the illustrations to the perennially popular 
Aesop’s Fables, which he published in his own edition of 1666. In contrast 
to earlier artists such as Francis Cleyn (c. 1582–1658), Barlow shows an extraordinary 
naturalism in his approach; his animals dominate the composition 
rather than being incidental, while the backgrounds are integral and convincing. 
The plates were so successful that when he came to publish a third, expanded 
edition of his Aesop Paraphras’d (1651, 1665), John Ogilby enlisted Barlow’s help. 

This drawing of The Fox and the Eagle was one of several that Barlow provided 
for the Aesopics of 1668. It takes up his composition from the edition of 1666, 
but in an upright rather than a horizontal format. An eagle has carried off a fox 
cub to feed to her chicks, while the vixen, carrying a lighted brand, stands on a 
high branch of a tree, preparing to set fire to the nest. In the background, the 
episode is echoed several times with variations: another eagle attacks a fox’s lair, 
a second fox carries an eagle in its teeth, and a third howls at an eagle perched 
out of reach. Like most of Barlow’s drawings for illustrations, it is drawn with a 
quill pen in brown ink over graphite underdrawing, with diluted grey ink added 
to convey light and shade. The heavy and rather hard outlines were intended to 
facilitate the task of the engraver, in this case Richard Gaywood. CH

1. Quoted in Hodnett (1978) p. 13.
2. Quoted in Hodnett (1978) p. 12.




116

Francis Barlow ?1626–1704

A Political Satire, 1679

Pen and brown ink with grey wash on paper 
21.2 x 31.4 cm
Signed and dated: F. Barlow 1679 
Inscribed: we walk but slow but Aps face we 
be shure / And these Afronts no longer shall 
indure; Come Mounsure [crossed out and altered 
in a different hand to] good sa hust I shall so 
pault your Brayne / Ile make you spue my aple 
up agayne / your Shabrone rout shall soene my 
Cuntrey fly / Lyke Shitlecoke Ile make them 
mount the sky; Began [crossed out and altered in 
a different hand to] Gadone you are soone of an 
Hure and know / Ile have your countrey where de 
Aple grow / no matter where the warre be false or 
right / Tis for my Glory that I now doe fight; Sa 
sah along ten towsand pug me slay / then turn my 
arse and bravely run away
The pages inscribed magiour / Liktren / cher 
and Captayne Suckplume.
Bequeathed by Francis Douce, 1834
WA1863.999

Literature: Hodnett (1978) pp. 26–30; 
Brown (1982) no. 63; Stainton and White 
(1987) no. 110

Political cartoons were published regularly in England in the seventeenth 
century, but were usually made by untrained artists with no great technical skill. 
Barlow was the first major artist to turn his hand to the genre, but only three of 
his designs survive, of which this is the most elaborate. The drawing is prepared 
for engraving as a large broadside, but seems never to have been published. 

The subject has been convincingly interpreted by Hodnett. It refers to the 
extensive territorial conflicts which were resolved by the Treaty of Nijmegen in 
1679. On the left is an ape intended for the Holy Roman Emperor, Leopold I, 
riding a bear. He is accompanied by his monkey attendant, ‘major Likterncher’, 
representing Charles V, Duke of Lorraine. Opposing him in this mock joust is 
the French king, Louis XIV. He is personified as an ape riding a boar, with the 
fleur de lys on his shield and the Gallic cock on the boar’s armour. The king is 
attended by ‘Captayne Suckplume’, probably Charles II of Great Britain and 
an ally of the French. Above the Emperor is an owl blowing a horn, to which 
is attached a banner bearing a pair of crossed artichokes. Above Louis XIV is a 
snipe with a different horn, and a banner emblazoned with three mushrooms. 
The birds represent the Papacy (with reference to the crossed keys of St Peter) 
and Charles XI of Sweden (the three crowns being an emblem of Sweden 
and referring to the united kingdoms of Norway, Sweden, and Denmark). 
In 1678–9, at the conclusion of a series of wars, Louis XIV formally ceded 
Lorraine, symbolised by the apple that is the object of this joust, to the Holy 
Roman Empire. In other contemporary treaties France gained possession of 
the Franche Comté and Artois from Spain, and ceded Maastricht to the Dutch 
Republic. Iconographically, Barlow’s cartoon is indebted to Aesop’s fable of the 
kite, the frog, and the mouse.

The circumstances of the commission of this drawing are not known. 
However, Barlow’s patron, William Cavendish, later 1st Duke of Devonshire, 
had succeeded in 1677 in persuading Charles II to withdraw British troops from 
supporting the French, and the cartoon may have been made at his behest. CH



117

James Gillray 1756–1815

Consequences of a successful French Invasion, No. VI Plate 1st: We fly on the Wings of the Wind 
to save the Irish Catholics from Persecution, 1798

Pen and brown ink and watercolour 
on paper
31 x 40 cm
Lent from the Jeffrey Archer Political 
Cartoon Collection
LI2225.1

Literature: George VII no. 9183; 
Beetles (2013) pp. 32–3

Gillray was the first political caricaturist in Britain. The son of a member of the 
Moravian Brethren, who believed in the essential depravity of existence, he 
maintained a misanthropic attitude to life, and a keen interest in politics. As a 
draughtsman, he was so precocious that he was already able to support himself 
by selling caricatures while studying at the Royal Academy Schools. 

Like many in Britain, Gillray initially welcomed the outbreak of the French 
Revolution and the downfall of Louis XVI in 1789, producing a print entitled 
France Freedom, Britain Slavery. As atrocity succeeded atrocity, however, his 
attitude changed completely, and from 1791 the French became the targets for 
some of his most ferocious caricatures. Following the execution of Louis XVI 
in 1793, Gillray reserved his greatest animosity for the sans-culottes and their 
supporters, among whom he counted Charles James Fox. Even before France 
declared war on Britain in February 1793, Gillray attacked Fox as a regicide and 
traitor. The fall of Fox gave way in Gillray’s repertoire to the rise of Napoleon. 
Little Boney was to become one of his greatest creations: small, haggard, manic, 
and almost insane. 

In 1798 Sir John Dalrymple of Cousland (1726–1810), an enthusiastic but 
rather ineffectual Scottish writer, published a prospectus advertising a series 
of caricatures illustrating The Consequences of the French Invasion, in the hope 
of attracting funding from the government. His intention was to ‘rouse all 
the People to an active Union against that Invasion; at a time when about five 
Millions of Cultures, with Beaks and Claws, hover over them; and when the 
Indolence and Divisions of the people themselves are more alarming than all 
foreign Enemies’. Two years earlier, Gillray’s companion, Mrs Humphrey, had 
already published his print of Promis’d Horrors of the French Invasion, or, Forcible 
Reasons for negotiating a Regicide Peace, against the proposed peace treaty with 
the revolutionary government. Now he provided plates showing the French 
instructing the House of Lords, the House of Commons, and the peasantry in 
their iniquitous ways.1 The present drawing, in Gillray’s most vigorous style, 
depicts two bloodthirsty French soldiers ejecting a priest from his church; a 
third stamping on a pile of crucifixes and mitres, while a judge looks on with 
approval. Dalrymple admired Gillray’s drawing, telling him that ‘The Irish 
Roman Catholic one is excellently executed & will do Good in Ireland in opening 
the eyes of these poor people’.2 Unfortunately, the British government did 
not agree, and the series was discontinued with only four plates completed. CH

1. George VII nos. 9180–2.
2. Quoted in George VII, p. 430.




118

Thomas Rowlandson 1756/7–1827

The Corsican, his Two Friends and his Bloodhounds at the Window of the Tuileries 
looking over Paris, 1815

Pen and brown ink and watercolour 
over graphite on paper
23.5 x 35.8 cm
Inscribed: The Corsican, his two friends, and his 
Blood Hounds / at the window of the Thuilleries 
Looking over Pari, and: MORE HORRERS 
DEATH HELL AND / DESTRUCTION
Presented by Gerald Reitlinger, 1972
WA1978.47

Literature: Grego (1880) II pp. 292–3; 
Brown (1982) no. 1620

For most of his professional life, Rowlandson loved ridiculing the French. 
He first visited France in 1774, while still a student at the Royal Academy 
Schools, and returned several times in the 1780s. His caricatures mocked all 
aspects of French life, from royalty to beggars, with favourite targets being the 
military and the clergy, as well as the eating habits of all classes. 

Napoleon was an obvious target for an English caricaturist, but Rowlandson 
did not begin drawing him in earnest until he had himself crowned as Emperor 
of France in 1804. Thereafter, Napoleon’s tribulations and foibles became 
frequent subjects. In one of Rowlandson’s most memorable works, published 
in 1808, Napoleon is portrayed as the ‘Corsican spider’, sitting in the middle of 
his web waiting for all the countries of Europe to become ensnared. Elsewhere, 
he appears as the Corsican bloodhound, the Corsican toad, or the Corsican 
Munchausen. Increasingly, he was accompanied by a skeleton personifying 
Death; the two appear to great effect in Nap and his Friends in their Glory, with 
Joseph Bonaparte and the Devil drinking a toast of ‘success to plunder and 
massacre’. Five years later Napoleon and Death appeared sitting disconsolately 
on the battlefield under the title The Two Kings of Terror.1 With great relish, 
Rowlandson drew caricatures of each episode of Napoleon’s discomfiture.

Following a succession of defeats by the Allied Coalition, Napoleon 
was deposed by the French Senate. Eventually accepting the inevitable, 
he was obliged to abdicate in April 1814. Under the terms of the Treaty of 
Fontainebleau, he was exiled to the island of Elba, but escaped on 26 February 
1815. After landing in France, he rallied the army against King Louis XVIII, 
but after 100 days, on 18 June 1815 his forces were defeated by the allied armies 
under the Duke of Wellington at Waterloo.

This caricature is one of several by Rowlandson that closely follows the events 
after Napoleon’s escape from Elba. It portrays him in Paris, on the balcony of 
the royal palace of the Tuileries, wearing his uniform but no orders. Standing 
beside him is his henchman, Marshal Ney, who had risen from lowly origins in 
Napoleon’s army, turned against him in 1814, and recently re-joined his forces. 
Both men are embraced by the Devil. Death is perched on the balustrade, 
holding a dart dripping with blood, and looking into Napoleon’s eyes, tempting 
him to perpetrate more horror, death, and destruction. However, the sand 
runs quickly through the hourglass of Time. Below, the crowds hold aloft pikes 
and bayonets, some skewering human heads. The drawing was published with 
modifications by Rudolph Ackermann on 16 April 1815. CH

1. Grego (1880) II pp. 100–1, 255–7.




119

Thomas Rowlandson 1756/7–1827

Off Spithead, or ‘Cattle not Insurable’, c. 1809

Pen and grey and brown inks and 
watercolour over indications in graphite 
on paper
23.7 x 34.6 cm
Purchased (Virtue-Tebbs Bequest Fund), 
1963
WA1963.89.78

Literature: Paulson (1972) no. 31; 
Brown (1982) 1603

Rowlandson produced many lively images of soldiers and sailors during the 
period of Napoleonic conflict. Although he was a close friend of the caricaturist 
James Gillray, his satire generally focused on wry social observation rather than 
ascerbic political comment.

Spithead is a sheltered body of water at the mouth of the Solent, between 
Portsmouth and the Isle of Wight, in which the Royal Navy Fleet would anchor. 
Here two ships await the arrival of rowing boats laden with carousing, buxom 
women, apparently eager to entertain the crews on board. Sailors were not 
permitted 
to go ashore when they returned to port, but ‘wives’ were allowed 
to visit them, and as the sailors received their pay when the ship docked, 
prostitutes needed little encouragement. When the Royal George foundered 
off Spithead in 1782, over 400 prostitutes were found below decks. In 1784 
Rowlandson made a brief visit to the Isle of Wight with his friend, the painter 
Henry Wigstead (1760–1800), possibly to see the wreck of this ship. A less 
finished version of this drawing is in the Huntington Library, together with 
nearly 70 watercolours resulting from the trip. They may have been intended 
for publication with texts by Wigstead, as in the case of Rowlandson’s tours to 
Brighton (1789) and Wales (1797).2

Never afraid to tackle scenes of rollicking sexuality, Rowlandson produced 
many semi-pornographic images. However, this scene is in a lighter vein: 
the woman at the centre of the boat, waving her hat and handkerchief to a 
man leaning 
out of a porthole, may well be a genuine spouse, reunited with 
her husband. 
Her handkerchief mirrors the billowing skirts of the woman 
scrambling 
up the ship’s ladder, while the vast anchor above echoes the curve 
of her behind. There is a joyful, optimistic quality to the scene, despite the dark 
context of war and prostitution. The ship’s figurehead is a British lion bearing 
the cross of St George, to which the woman on the far left appears to raise her 
glass in a patriotic salute.

Rowlandson’s designs were widely reproduced as prints during his lifetime; 
within the mount of this drawing is a copy of the hand-coloured etching and 
aquatint published by Rudolph Ackermann in 1809 as ‘Cattle not Insurable’.3 
In 1813 a cruder version was produced by William Elmes, in which barrels of 
‘Smugled Coniac Brandy’ and ‘Hollands Gin’ are roped to the stern of the boat.4 
Such prints perhaps contributed to the decline in Rowlandson’s reputation, 
proving too ribald for Victorian tastes. His work went rapidly out of fashion, 
and did not re-emerge as worthy of serious consideration until after the First 
World War. CP

1. Blake and Lawrence (2005) p. 120.
2. Wark (1975) no. 137.
3. Ashmolean Museum, WA.OA1964.
4. British Museum, 1872,1012.5035; George 
(1949), IX, BM Satires 12158.




120

Edward Lear 1812–1888

Nonsense Alphabet, 1862

26 sheets, pen and ink on blue paper 
backed with linen
31.7 x 20.5 cm (volume)
31.1 x 19.6 cm (sheet)
Open at the letter R: R was a Rabbit / Who 
had a bad habit / Of eating flowers, / In gardens 
and bowers. / r! / Naughty fat rabbit!
Bequeathed by James Farquharson, 2011
WA2013.24

Literature: Noakes (1985) no. 81b; 
Hyman (1988); Harrison (2012)

It was in the 1830s, while he was staying with his great patron the 13th Earl of 
Derby at Knowsley Hall, that Lear began to amuse himself and the children 
of the household by writing nonsense verses illustrated with his own drawings 
(he never called them limericks). Although most of the nonsense was originally 
composed for specific children on specific occasions, some of the best were 
published as A Book of Nonsense in 1846, under the pseudonym Derry Down 
Derry, taken from a character in the medieval mummers’ plays. Lear finally 
acknowledged his authorship publicly in the third, much expanded, edition of 
1861. This was also the first to enjoy wide currency, the plates being printed from 
woodblocks rather than lithographic stones. He later published nonsense in 
other genres, notably Nonsense Songs, Botany and Alphabets (1871), which included 
for the first time ‘The Owl and the Pussy Cat’.

Several of Lear’s nonsense alphabets survive; six were published in the 
posthumous 
edition of Nonsense Botany and Nonsense Alphabets (1889). The 
present 
alphabet was made for the infant Ruth Decie. Her parents, Captain 
Richard Decie and his wife Bella, were stationed in the British garrison on 
Corfu in the winter of 1861–2, when Lear met them. He already knew Mrs 
Decie’s parents, William and Arabella Prescott, who lived at Clarence House, 
Roehampton, christened ‘Hospitality Hall’ by Lear. William Prescott was a 
partner in the private bank of Prescott, Grote, Cave, and Co., and ‘a hearty, 
gentlemanly man’, the head of a ‘merry & pleasant family’.1 

Lear spent Saturday to Monday, 21 to 23 June 1862 with the Prescotts at 
Clarence House. He recorded in his diary for Sunday 22 that he ‘rose at 6:30 & 
made an alphabet for the Decie baby till 9’, and completed it after lunch. The first 
draught (now in the Houghton Library, Harvard) shows that he must have made 
the verses for each letter, then copied them out with rough drawings, and finally 
made the fair copy on blue, linen-backed writing paper after lunch. The subjects, 
a mixture of animals and domestic articles, would have been familiar to any 
child. The rabbit is particularly appealing, as he glances sidelong while naughtily 
munching the flowers. This alphabet, together with illustrated letters, a suite 
of four ‘Eggstracts from the Roehampton Chronicle’ and other items, became 
treasured family heirlooms. They passed from the Decies to James Farquharson, 
who in turn bequeathed them to the Ashmolean. 

1. Lear, Diary, 22 June 1862.




121

Sir Edward Coley Burne-Jones 1833–1898 

Album of Illustrated Letters from Burne-Jones to Mrs Gaskell, 1893–8

Pen and ink on writing paper, 
mounted on to an album page
40.5 x 28 cm (page)
41 x 30.5 x 3.5 cm (album), open at fol. 3
Lent from a private collection, 2009
LI1075.4

Throughout his married life, Burne-Jones maintained intense friendships with 
a succession of women. The last was Helen Mary Gaskell (1853–1940), known 
as May, whom he met in 1892. She was the wife of a cavalry officer of considerable 
wealth but little culture, and Burne-Jones soon became dependent on her, 
declaring that she had ‘reached the well of loneliness that is in me’. He sent her 
intimate and revealing letters several times a day, and, shortly before his death, 
recalled ‘six years of the most beautiful friendship that ever there was’. In spite 
of Burne-Jones’s instructions to burn all their correspondence, Mrs Gaskell 
carefully preserved their letters. She bequeathed most of them to her surviving 
daughter, Daphne, because ‘you who knew him will understand that they are so 
precious and tender and wise and witty, but not for the eye of the scoffer, or for 
the eye of the casual reader’. 

In addition to these private and often deeply emotional letters, Burne-
Jones 
also sent more light-hearted, illustrated letters, which Mrs Gaskell had 
mounted into two matching albums; a third album, containing only six letters, 
was given to Lord Balniel (later 28th Earl of Crawford) in 1936.1 Their cast of 
characters is to some extent familiar from humorous letters written to other 
correspondents, notably Katie Lewis.2 It includes the artist himself, in a series 
of cartoon-like tales of mishap and misadventure. Beneath the surface lies the 
black humour endemic to Burne-Jones’s frequent moods of depression and 
insecurity; there is, for example, a superb sequence of caricatures of the artist 
suffering from flu. 

One special character who appears frequently in Mrs Gaskell’s letters is a 
fat lady with ‘abominable’ dress sense, whom Burne-Jones christened Julia 
Parkington. In this sequence, she is seen making a deep curtsey – ‘as for our 
deportment in the presence of Royalty, I’ll just trouble you to look’; remarking 
on a picture, her fan dangerously close to the canvas – ‘we can point out the 
beauties of pictures with the best of them’; sleeping on a day bed, the drawing 
so saturated in ink that the artist wondered ‘whether she will dry in time for 
the afternoon post’; and sleeping in a hammock. Elsewhere, she is captured 
walking on the cliffs at Rottingdean, near the artist’s country residence, North 
End House, on a windy day; deliberating over propriety in the bathroom; and 
sitting in a very tight-fitting bath. The last is annotated by Burne-Jones, ‘I like 
this best’. CH

1. Sold at Sotheby’s, 28 November 2002, lot 27, 
and now in the collection of Lord Lloyd-Webber.
2. Now in the British Museum; see Christian 
(1988) and Christian (2011).




122

Sir Edward Coley Burne-Jones 1833–1898 

Daphne’s Album, open at a letter including a self-portrait of Burne-Jones with a cat, 1893–8

Pen and blue ink on writing paper
17.7 x 22.5 cm (letter)
27.5 x 37.5 x 4 cm (volume)
Lent from a private collection, 2009
LI1075.5

Daphne Gaskell (1887–1964) was the younger daughter of May Gaskell 
(see cat. 121). Her elder sister, Amy (1874–1910) was a haunting beauty whose 
portrait Burne-Jones painted in 1893–4.1 Daphne was only six when she met 
the artist, and he took an affectionate and fatherly interest in her, sending 
numerous 
letters written in phonetic spelling, and illustrated with whimsical 
birds and animals, including such fantastic inventions as the ‘phlumbudge’, 
the ‘
paddiflab’, the ‘flapdabble’ and the ‘grabblethwacker’. Burne-Jones greatly 
disliked dogs, and in one rather gruesome letter he complains of being kept 
awake by a dog barking, so that he was obliged to get dressed and take a 
‘choper’ to it. The question he asked Daphne was, inevitably, what should he 
do with the pieces – ‘I think of sending to have them made up for sossidges for 
some horsepittle’. 

On the other hand, Burne-Jones was very fond of cats. The text of this letter 
refers to the Gaskell family cat, Thomas.

Darlink dafny

i foregot to say i do want a cat but I think i want a fat hevy tabby chap like Tommus, how 
is Tommus by the by? and i think persian pusseys are delikit and i want a heavy fellow 
with a face like a poik py and waying many pounds with being tite and fat so that when 
it sits on my lapp it will feel hevy and rest me because it is a nice felink to be sat upon and 
I should like to rest in a armchar like this and have a hevy cat crecher sitting all up me and 
perring. Now i must conclewd dear and i send you my love. 

Your efxiontate B. J. 

In later life, Daphne Gaskell married Frank Rose (1874–1914). He was the son 
of Sir Charles Rose of Hardwick House, Oxfordshire (1874–1913), a politician 
and keen motorist, who was one of the models for Mr Toad in Kenneth 
Grahame’s The Wind in the Willows (1908). Shortly after succeeding as second 
baronet, Daphne’s husband was killed in action at Ypres. CH

1. Now in the collection of Lord Lloyd-Webber; 
London (2003) no. 50.




123

Sir Max Beerbohm 1872–1956

Oscar Wilde, 1894

Pen and black ink on off-white paper
30.9 x 19.1 cm
Signed: Max. Inscribed: Oscar Wilde
Presented by Mrs Philip Guedalla, 1945
WA1945.1
© The Estate of Max Beerbohm

Literature: Hart-Davis (1972) no. 1779; 
Hall (1997) pp. 18–9

Beerbohm was an undergraduate at Merton College, Oxford, when he first 
met Oscar Wilde (1854–1900) in 1890. Their relationship blossomed through 
a circle of mutual friends, among them Robert Ross and Reginald Turner. The 
Irish writer was rising to the height of his fame as the author of short stories and 
criticism. 
A succession of plays, culminating in The Importance of Being Earnest, 
which opened on 14 February 1895, consolidated his reputation as the wittiest 
man in London. Beerbohm’s first publication was an article on ‘Oscar Wilde 
by an American’ in 1893; it elicited flattering comments from the subject, who 
called him, ‘incomparably brilliant … he knew no other undergraduate who 
could have written it’.1 At the same time Beerbohm was publishing his first 
caricatures, and he contributed both essays and caricatures to such periodicals 
as The Yellow Book and Sketch. The appearance in 1896 of collections of essays as 
The Works of Max Beerbohm and of drawings as Caricatures of Twenty-Five Gentlemen 
confirmed his accomplishments in both areas.

This caricature of Wilde was published in Pick-me-Up magazine on 
22 September 1894. Drawn in the thin, nervous, swirling line of Beerbohm’s 
earliest 
drawings, it portrays Wilde in a bejewelled shirt front and ring and with 
an extravagant buttonhole; his features puffy and his hair unfashionably long. In 
private, Beerbohm was not uncritical of his friend; he wrote to Turner in April 
1893 that, ‘I am sorry to say that Oscar drinks far more than he ought … he has 
deteriorated very much in appearance: his cheeks being quite a dark purple and 
fat to a fault’.2 Although he always maintained, somewhat disingenuously, that 
‘caricature implies no moral judgement on the subject … it eschews any kind 
of symbolism, tells no story, deals with no matter but the personal appearance 
of its subject’, Beerbohm came to regret his first and most famous portrayal 
of Wilde.3 Many years later, he wrote that it ‘showed only the worst side of his 
nature … I hardly realised what a cruel thing it was: I only realised that after 
Oscar’s tragedy and downfall’.4 CH

1. Quoted in Hall (1997) p. 17.
2. Ibid.
3. Hall (1997) pp. 15–16.
4. Hall (1997) p. 19.




124

Sir Max Beerbohm 1872–1956

Mr G. K. Chesterton, 1912

Watercolour, black chalk and graphite on 
off-white paper
32.5 x 21.4 cm
Presented by Mrs Philip Guedalla, 1945
WA1945.47
© The Estate of Max Beerbohm

Literature: Hart-Davis (1972) no. 312; 
Hall (1997) pp. 55–6

By 1912, when this caricature was drawn, Gilbert Keith Chesterton (1874–1936) 
had become one of the most recognisable writers in England. The author of 
apparently innumerable essays, he had also published several novels, ranging 
from The Napoleon of Notting Hill (1904) and The Man who was Thursday (1908) to 
The Innocence of Father Brown (1911), the first collection of stories featuring the 
Roman Catholic priest whose insignificant appearance belies extraordinary 
powers of observation and deduction. Having been slim in his youth, 
Chesterton had become notoriously obese. Encouraged by his wife, he adopted 
extravagant dress, habitually wearing a huge cloak and wide-brimmed hat. 
He frequented the taverns of Fleet Street with his pockets stuffed full of books 
and papers, somewhat in the guise of a latter-day Dr Johnson. 

Even before Chesterton had become famous, Beerbohm went out of his way 
to meet him. He wrote in 1902 of an 

Enormous apparition. Head big for body – way of sinking head on chest. Like a mountain 
and a volcanic one – constant streams of talk flowing down, paradoxes flung up in the 
air – very magnificent.1

This caricature exemplifies his view that 

The perfect caricature (be it of a handsome man or a hideous or an insipid) must be 
the exaggeration of the whole creature, from top to toe. Whatsoever is salient must be 
magnified, 
whatsoever is subordinate must be proportionately diminished. The whole man 
must be melted down, as in a crucible, and then, as from the solution, be fashioned anew. 
He must emerge with not one particle of himself lost, yet with not a particle of himself 
as it was before. And he will stand there wholly transformed, the joy of his creator, the 
joy of those who are privy to the art of caricature. … The perfect caricature is not a mere 
snapshot, it is the epitome of its subject’s surface, the presentment (once and for all) of his 
most characteristic pose, gesture, expression.2

Chesterton is seen in all his magnificent corpulence at the dinner table, smoking 
a cigar but apparently before the food and wine have been served. Great folds 
of flesh are scarcely contained by his suit, while his waistcoat is far from 
meeting the top of his trousers, revealing his straining braces. In keeping with 
the subject, 
the style of the drawing is smooth and round, with wash carefully 
applied only to the figure. This caricature was published in the Bystander for 
24 July 1912. CH

1. Quoted in Hall (1997) p. 55.
2. Quoted in Hall (1997) p. 15.




125

Sir William Newenham Montague Orpen 1878–1931

Seeing Himself as Others See Him: A Caricature of Kaiser Wilhelm II, 1919

Pen and brush and black ink with wash, over 
graphite indications on paper
30 x 20 cm
Inscribed: Seeing himself as others see him / 
28.6.19
Purchased, 1964
WA1964.54.2

Literature: Konody and Dark (1932) 
pl. XII, p. 58; Upstone (2005) p. 39

A product of the Slade School, where he was a close contemporary of Augustus 
and Gwen John, the Irish painter William Orpen was appointed an official war 
artist in 1916 and visited the Western Front in April 1917. His early idealism 
turned to disillusionment as a result of his bitter wartime experiences on 
the Somme, and the powerful paintings he produced – devastated battlefield 
landscapes, 
portraits of fighting men, and haunting victims of shell-shock – 
convey his horror. An exhibition of his work for the Ministry of Information was 
held at Agnew’s in spring 1918, simply entitled ‘War’.

Orpen created a number of caricatures of Kaiser Wilhelm, including one of 
him as the Devil stalking abroad (1914; private collection). Here he uses the 
Kaiser’s nakedness to emphasise his vulnerability, though the crouching figure, 
like some grotesquely aged and moustachioed foetus, has a threatening coiled 
strangeness to it – reminiscent of Japanese Netsuke carvings or the nightmarish 
figures of Hieronymus Bosch. Orpen felt enormous empathy for those damaged 
by the war, and his anger is reflected in the savagery of this image. Yet his prints 
and drawings of German prisoners of war (many in the Imperial War Museum) 
acknowledge their humanity and show great sympathy for their plight.

A second caricature drawing in the Ashmolean collection, inscribed PEACE / 
28th June 1919, was used as a poster for the News of the World (fig. 66). This shows 
an emaciated, shivering Kaiser sitting cross-legged in the manner of an Indian 
sadhu, or holy man, on a pile of bones; it may be that the prickly bed of graveyard 
crosses in the present drawing was also intended to evoke an Indian mystic’s bed 
of nails. The drawings employ the same paper, medium and style of border, so 
were undoubtedly produced for the same commission, marking the signing of the 
Treaty of Versailles.

Propaganda was a vital part of the war effort, and many talented artists 
contributed. 
The liberal politician Charles Masterman (1873–1927), in charge of 
the War Propaganda Bureau from August 1914, declared ‘It is absurdly difficult 
to explain … why any particular piece of propaganda is desirable … Every little 
piece of it easily looks ridiculous; it is only by the concentrated effect of all that 
the result we desire is obtained.’1 Far from appearing ridiculous, this drawing 
still carries 
a powerful emotive charge that transcends its original political 
context. CP

1. Quoted in Harries (1983) p. 77. 



Fig. 66 | Sir William Newenham Montague Orpen 
(1878–1931), Peace, 28th June 1919: Caricature of 
Kaiser Wilhelm II, 1919. Pen and brush and blue 
ink on paper. Ashmolean Museum, WA1964.54.1




126

Sir David Alexander Cecil Low 1891–1963

Max, Lord Beaverbrook, 1926

Black crayon and white bodycolour over 
graphite on paper
43.1 x 31.2 cm
Signed: Low. Inscribed: Max, Lord 
Beaverbrook.
Purchased (Dr John Fuggles Bequest Fund), 
2003
WA2003.130
© David Low / Solo Syndication

Literature: National Portrait Gallery 
(1985–86) no. 74; Mumford (2002) no. 88

Born in New Zealand, Low moved to London in 1919 and joined the Star as a 
political cartoonist. In October 1927 the Canadian-born Lord Beaverbrook, 
proprietor of the Evening Standard, persuaded Low to join his staff, and Low 
was to work for him until 1950, despite his cartoons often opposing the 
Conservative policies that Beaverbrook espoused. Winston Churchill described 
Low as a ‘green-eyed … Antipodean radical, a master of black and white; he 
is the Charlie Chaplin of caricature’.1 Although chiefly remembered for his 
character ‘Colonel Blimp’, Low’s proudest achievement was probably his 
anti-Appeasement and anti-Nazi cartoons of the 1930s. 

This caricature of William Maxwell ‘Max’ Aitken, first Lord Beaverbrook 
(1879–1964), was published in a supplement to the New Statesman on 27 March 
1926. It also appeared as the frontispiece to A. J. P. Taylor’s biography of 
Beaverbrook (1972), as according to Taylor it was the best likeness of all his portraits. 
Beaverbrook was a business tycoon, Conservative MP (1910–7) and peer. 
Appointed Minister of Information in the last months of the First World War, 
he was responsible for Allied propaganda together with Charles Masterman, 
and created the British War Memorials Committee. In 1940 Winston Churchill 
brought him into the War Cabinet, where he held a number of important posts 
before being appointed Lord Privy Seal (1943–5). 

Low produced two series of caricatures of politicians for the New Statesman 
in 1926 and 1933, of which Lord Beaverbrook considered those of Lloyd George 
as a ‘lovable cherubic little chap’ to be some of the best.2 Low emphasised the 
salient points of each subject’s character; in his image of Beaverbrook he reveals 
his impish propensity to stir up trouble, a hint of malicious puckishness in 
his over-wide grin and elfin pointed shoes. The dynamic Beaverbrook had a 
reputation 
as an unscrupulous master of intrigue, and A. J. P. Taylor described 
him as ‘a clever restless little boy always up to mischief’.3

Some of Low’s most characteristic work is in ink applied with a brush. 
Here, however, he demonstrates equal facility in his use of black crayon, 
although his caricatures are always underpinned by careful drawing in graphite 
beneath. White bodycolour, or possibly process white, is applied to highlight 
the telephone mouthpiece, all-important to the newspaper proprietor for 
barking orders through to his editors and journalists. His fellow cartoonist 
Ronald Searle has expressed admiration for Low’s sureness of touch, but Ralph 
Steadman considered him to lack the viciousness of a Gillray. For Steadman, 
Low was always ‘the insider playing the maverick, hand-in-glove with Lord 
Beaverbrook’.4 CP

1. Mumford (2002) p. 11.
2. Ashmolean Museum; WA2008.34–8.
3. Reynolds (2014) pp. 168–9.
4. Mumford (2002) pp. 16–7.




127

Ernest Howard Shepard 1879–1976

The Pre-Raphaelite Cocktail Party, 1934

Pen and Indian ink and white bodycolour 
over pencil with scratching out on board 
26.9 x 37.9 cm
Signed: Ernest H. Shepard
Inscribed: ‘The Pre-Raphaelite Cocktail Party’ 
(a thought that came to our artist after visiting 
the William Morris centenary exhibition)
Purchased with funds bequeathed by 
Miss Elizabeth Woods, 2003
WA2003.328
© The Estate of Ernest Shepard

Shepard was conventionally educated at the Royal Academy Schools, but always 
hoped to work for the satirical magazine Punch. His first drawing was accepted 
in 1906, but it was not until 1914 that he became a regular contributor. In 1921 
he was finally appointed as a member of staff. This position required him to 
produce at least one humorous drawing for each weekly issue, and assured him 
of a regular income. It was through his contributions to Punch that he came 
to the attention of the author A. A. Milne (1882–1956). They collaborated on a 
volume 
of children’s verses, published in 1925 as When we were Very Young. This 
was quickly followed by the first of the immortal volumes featuring a stuffed 
bear of very little brain, his young owner Christopher Robin, and a group 
of finely characterised animal friends. Winnie the Pooh appeared in 1926 and 
was an instant success, with Shepard’s illustrations perfectly complementing 
Milne’s whimsical stories. As early as 1927 Milne could write that ‘Anybody who 
has heard of me has certainly heard of Shepard. Indeed our names have been 
associated 
on so many title pages that I am beginning to wonder which of us is 
which’.1 

In spite of this fame, Shepard continued to work for Punch, and was 
promoted 
second cartoonist in 1935. His subjects were very familiar to the artist 
and his middle-class readers, and dealt with the domestic difficulties of children, 
servants, and the rapid changes in society after the First World War. A number 
of the cartoons portray historical subjects, though Shepard exploited this vein 
most intensively in the volumes he illustrated for George Bell, Everybody’s Pepys 
(1926), Everybody’s Boswell (1930), and Everybody’s Lamb (1933). Occasionally, his 
work was inspired by a current exhibition, for example the cartoon published 
in Punch on 9 February 1927. Entitled ‘Maniers en Moden: The Effect of the 
Exhibition of Flemish Pictures’, it illustrated the Royal Academy’s ‘Exhibition 
of Belgian and Flemish Art 1300–1900’.

The Pre-Raphaelite Cocktail Party was reproduced in Punch on 28 February 
1934. As the inscription makes clear, it was prompted by a visit to the exhibition 
celebrating 
the centenary of the birth of William Morris at the Victoria and 
Albert Museum, an event opened by the former Prime Minister, Stanley 
Baldwin, on 9 February 1934. The idea may owe something to Beerbohm’s 
cartoons of Rossetti and his Circle (1922). Among the figures incongruously 
participating 
in this thoroughly modern form of entertainment are Morris 
and his wife, Jane Burden, and Dante Gabriel Rossetti and his wife, Elizabeth 
Siddal. As Shepard wrote on a preparatory study for this drawing, ‘I am now 
come to the conclusion perhaps as well that cocktail parties were not the thing 
in artistic circles 40 years ago’.2 CH

1. Shepard (1927) ‘Introduction’.
2. Private collection; with the Maas Gallery, 2012.




128

Edward Jeffrey Irving Ardizzone 1900–1979

Diary of a Visit to Dieppe: Sketchbook 12, 1950

Pen and ink and wash on paper
25.7 x 19.6 x 1.6 cm (volume), open at fol. 29
Inscribed: Dieppe with / David & Barnett 
Freedman
Accepted by HM Government in lieu 
of Inheritance Tax and allocated to the 
Ashmolean Museum, 1994
WA1994.87
© The Estate of Edward Ardizzone

Literature: Clemence and Ardizzone 
(2000) no. 46

In 1994 the Ashmolean Museum received 64 sketchbooks by Ardizzone, an 
extraordinary wealth of material by this gifted draughtsman. These date from 
1940 to 1979 and contain thousands of lively sketches in graphite, pen and ink, 
and watercolour depicting beach scenes, public house and law court interiors, 
together with figure studies and portraits. They also include preparatory ideas 
for some of Ardizzone’s book illustrations. The good humour of his work and 
the ease of his penmanship are both reminiscent of Rowlandson. 

Occasionally, Ardizzone kept a form of visual diary, as during his wartime 
stay in Southsea or his visit to the west of Ireland in 1958.1 This sketchbook of 
1950 is an especially whimsical record of a short trip to Dieppe with his brother 
David and the artist Barnett Freedman, a teacher at the Royal College of Art 
and Ruskin School in Oxford. The visit seems to have entailed much bibulous 
over-indulgence; even before the trio leave the cross-Channel ferry they 
‘Drink much whisky in the bar so arrive rather elated’ (fol. 25). There follows a 
detailed list of gastronomic delights, such as a ‘mountain’ of mussels, lobster 
mayonnaise, 
duck terrine trufflé, and roast pigeon with garlic toast – in addition 
to the landlady’s fine kidneys (rognons). Here we see folios 28 verso and 29, 
towards the end of their stay. The diary closes with all three walking by the sea 
under the cliffs of Dieppe, silhouetted against a spectacular sunset. 

The contrast with Ardizzone’s earlier visit to the Normandy coastline could 
not be more telling. Appointed an official war artist in February 1940, he 
worked with the British Expeditionary Force, travelling through North Africa, 
Sicily, and Italy. Joining the Allied forces on 12 June 1944, he landed at Sword 
Beach near Caen, to the west of Dieppe. Ardizzone spent his first night lying 
‘cold as the grave’ in a collapsing foxhole under bombardment, before hitch-hiking 
inland as far as Bayeux and back.2 As a fellow war artist, Freedman had 
also been in northern France just after D-Day (6 June 1944) to record scenes 
around the landing beaches and at the invasion headquarters. Just six years later 
they are watching fireworks rather than shells exploding on the French coast, 
and being warned of the grave dangers to health of taking snuff. CP

1. Ashmolean Museum; no. 46, WA1994.118 and 
no. 26, WA1994.100.
2. Ardizzone (1974) pp. 125–30, especially p. 126. 




129

Edward Jeffrey Irving Ardizzone 1900–1979

A Homage to Jock Cumberlege, c. 1955

Pen and ink and watercolour
over graphite on paper
21.8 x 29.5 cm
Signed: E. Ardizzone. Inscribed: To Jock 
Cumberlege in gratitude for his courage & 
perspicacity in being Tim’s first publisher / Alas 
I can’t get all my characters in, but I hope you will 
recognise those that are there – Ted. / 5555
Presented by Geoffrey Cumberlege, 2000
WA2000.126
© The Estate of Edward Ardizzone

Literature: Clemence and Ardizzone 
(2000) no. 17; Taylor (2000) pp. 81–92

Best known for illustrating books for children, Edward Ardizzone is in fact 
far broader in the range of his draughtsmanship. The Ashmolean collection 
has, for instance, three war-related watercolours and a series of pen and ink 
studies for the Gospels.1 Ardizzone’s formal training – consisting of evening 
classes at Westminster School of Art under Bernard Meninsky (1891–1950) – 
was minimal, 
and the distinctive personal style he evolved through constant 
repetition 
and practice altered little through his lifetime. As his daughter 
Christianna describes, Ardizzone was a compulsive doodler and sketcher, 
though he preferred (like Cruikshank and Daumier) to create his illustrations 
not from life, but from his head, storing up a visual dictionary of pictorial ideas 
and ‘symbols for forms’.2 

This drawing was created as a gift for Ardizzone’s American publisher 
Geoffrey ‘Jock’ Cumberlege, to whom he owed publication of his first ‘Little 
Tim’ story by Oxford University Press in 1936. It shows the prolific illustrator 
welcoming some of his best-known characters into his first-floor studio at 
130 Elgin Avenue, much to the alarm of his cat. Peering over the edge of the 
drawing board in typically cheeky fashion is Tim’s friend Ginger. Tim and Lucy 
take centre stage, with Lucy’s kindly guardian Mr Grimes, his housekeeper 
Mrs Smawley, and Charlotte to their right. Captain McFee, Joey Adze, the 
ship’s carpenter, 
and the second mate are entering far right. The gaze exchanged 
between Tim and ‘Uncle Ted’ is one of great affection. 

Ardizzone sits on a raised dais normally used for posing an artist’s 
model, in front of his tilted drawing board – just as in a profile self-portrait 
that immediately 
follows the ‘Visit to Dieppe’ in Sketchbook 12 (cat. 128).3 
Demonstrating Ardizzone’s typical technique, the flowing calligraphic lines 
in black ink are confidently improvised with a nibbed pen over loosely applied, 
soft watercolour washes, covering a faint tonal underdrawing in hard graphite. 
This drawing balances line and colour in a way that Ardizzone complained 
was difficult 
to achieve in reproduction, as colour printing techniques entailed 
creating 
a separate black line drawing on a transparent overlay. He emphasised 
the value of original works that united the two elements, permitting a 
last-minute 
accenting and balancing of the composition, or ‘working over’, 
which added depth to the image. Only this, he felt, was a proper record of the illustrator’s 
skill.4 CP

1. WA1947.385–7 and WA1991.13–9.
2. Clemence and Ardizzone (2000) pp. 3–6; 
Alderson (2003) pp. 259–63.
3. See also Clemence and Ardizzone (2000) 
no. 44 (from Sketchbook 65, fol. 25).
4. Alderson (2003) pp. 264–7.




130

Ronald William Fordham Searle 1920–2011

Design for the Cover of ‘How to be Topp’, 1991

Pen and ink and bodycolour
and crayon on paper
41.9 x 29.2 cm
Inscribed: Molesworth / How to be Topp / 
Geoffrey Willans & / Ronald Searle
Lent from the Jeffrey Archer Cartoon 
Collection
LI2225.3
© The Estate of Ronald Searle

Ronald Searle illustrated two of the most endearingly awful fictional schools 
in history, St Trinian’s (for girls) and St Custard’s (for boys). The former began 
life while the artist was imprisoned in the notorious Changi jail, where he drew 
the first cartoons of the series which were published monthly from November 
1945 in the periodical Lilliput. He eventually tired of the schoolgirls’ anarchic 
activities, 
and killed them off in his book, Souls in Torment (1952). However, 
by then others had assumed responsibility for their future, and the girls’ fame 
spread much wider with the first of the films by Frank Launder and Sidney 
Gilliatt, The Belles of St Trinian’s, released in 1954. 

St Custard’s, on the other hand, was created by the author Geoffrey Willans 
(1911–1958), based on his own experiences as a schoolboy and schoolmaster 
before the Second World War. Searle made his first illustrations to Willans’s 
stories in the magazine The Young Elizabethan, and the two collaborated closely 
on four books: Down with Skool!, published in 1953, followed by How to be Topp 
(1954), Whizz for Attoms (1956), and Back in the Jug Agane (1959). All four books 
relate the tribulations of ‘nigel molesworth the curse of st custard’s’, a senior boy 
at a preparatory school, whose spelling is phonetic and erratic, whose cynicism 
is unbounded, and who maintains that 

the only good things about skool are the BOYS wizz who are noble brave fearless etc. 
although you hav various swots, cissies, milksops, greedy guts and oils with whom I am 
forced to migle hem-hem.

How to be Topp is subtitled ‘a guide to Sukcess for tiny pupils, including all there 
is to kno about space’, and explains how to succeed in most aspects of school 
life – academic, sporting, and social. The final chapters give advice on ‘how to 
cope with grown ups’, especially at Christmas. The dust jacket of the first edition 
shows Molesworth looking extremely self-satisfied and wearing a mortar board. 
For the reissue published by Pavilion Books in 1992, Searle adapted an earlier 
cover used by Puffin Books. ‘Sir Molesworth’ is now shown triumphing over the 
dragon of his enemies, shield and sword aloft in an unmistakably balletic pose 
which might have been censured by his younger self in the 1950s. CH



131

Gerald Anthony Scarfe b. 1936

Victory Celebrations, 1975

Pen and ink on paper
75.6 x 54.6 cm
Inscribed: VICTORY CELEBRATIONS 
Lent from the Jeffrey Archer Political 
Cartoon Collection
LI2225.2
© Gerald Scarfe

Scarfe has worked for Punch and Private Eye, but is best known as the political 
cartoonist for The Sunday Times, with which he has been associated since 1967. 
This drawing was reproduced on 29 June 1975, and refers to the Conservative 
Party’s victory in the by-election in Woolwich West. Following the death of 
the sitting Labour Member of Parliament, the Conservative candidate was 
again Peter Bottomley (b. 1944). He had been beaten in the general election in 
the previous year. He succeeded in overturning the Labour majority of 3,541, 
winning by 2,382 votes. This represented a considerable swing away from the 
beleaguered government of Harold Wilson, though it was not for another four 
years that the Labour-Liberal alliance was ousted at the general election on 
3 May 1979.

The two figures congratulating each other are Edward Heath (1916–2005) 
and Margaret Thatcher (1925–2013). Heath had served as Prime Minister from 
June 1970 until the Conservative Party was narrowly beaten by Labour in the 
general election of March 1974. He remained as leader of the party until he was 
succeeded by Mrs Thatcher on 11 February 1975. The Woolwich West by-election 
thus represented her first significant success as party leader. In emulation of Sir 
Winston Churchill’s frequent signal of ‘v’ for victory during the Second World 
War, Heath and Mrs Thatcher are seen making ‘v’ signs to each other, not palm 
outwards, as Churchill had done, but palm inwards, in an insulting gesture 
more typically associated with juvenile rudeness. Scarfe’s caricatures are freely 
and confidently drawn, with very regular hatching to define forms and volume. 

Mrs Thatcher went on to become the longest-serving British Prime Minister 
of the twentieth century (1979–90), while Heath became Father of the House of 
Commons in 1992, retiring from politics in 2001, and remaining bitter about 
his rival’s success all his life. The two were frequent subjects for Scarfe, who 
chronicled Mrs Thatcher’s rise from Education Secretary in 1971, when she 
was responsible for withdrawing the daily allowance of free milk for schoolchildren 
and became known as the ‘Milk Snatcher’, to her defeat as leader of 
the Conservative Party in 1990. CH



132

Tom Phillips b. 1937 

Studies for ‘Merry Meetings’, 2002–5

Pen and red, green, blue, brown, and black 
inks on paper
29.7 x 21 cm (each sheet)
Purchased (Vaughan and Blakiston Funds) 
with the assistance of The Art Fund and the 
MLA/V&A Purchase Grant Fund, 2009
WA2009.107.51, 91, 93 and 101
© Tom Phillips. All rights reserved, DACS 
2015

Literature: Phillips (2005) nos. 51, 85, 
87 and 96

In his essay ‘Pleasures of Boredom: Four Centuries of Doodles’, the art historian 
E. H. Gombrich traced the practice of doodling as far back as the Middle Ages. 
He argued that not only did contemporary art influence the style of the doodles, 
but also that, in the case of a true artist, the doodles themselves, to some extent 
unconscious, affected more deliberate acts of creativity.1 In general, doodles are 
based either on images, or on words, and often a combination of the two. This 
explains their appeal to Tom Phillips – an artist who has always combined text 
and images in imaginative new ways (cat. 114).

Most artists have a compulsive need to set pen or pencil to paper as a means 
of exploring the subconscious or experimenting stylistically, but when does a 
doodle become ‘art’? Going one step further than Paul Klee’s famous notion of 
‘taking a line for a walk’, Phillips turns actual doodling into an art form in his 
Merry Meetings, published in 2005. (The ironic title is taken from the opening 
lines of Shakespeare’s Richard III: ‘Now are our brows bound with victorious 
wreaths, … / Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings.’) A total of 107 
images sketched at board meetings of the British Museum, Royal Academy, 
National Portrait Gallery and elsewhere, the doodles playfully undermine the 
stuffy formalities of these august institutions, represented by their printed 
agendas and business plans.

Shown here are just four sheets that demonstrate the variety of Phillips’s 
doodling techniques, ranging from simple patterning, mazes and amorphous 
shapes to portraits of fellow board members. These were not originally intended 
for display, though the use of colour seems to imply – far more than would a 
simple black penline – a conscious aestheticising intrusion into the process. 
The imaginative incorporation of one image into another and the use of line 
are strongly reminiscent of Picasso’s drawing technique, as recorded in 1956 by 
Henri-Georges Clouzot in his film, Le Mystère Picasso.

These works represent a subversive exploration of the gap between boredom 
and concentration, questioning what is allowable in such official contexts. 
Phillips insists that, far from distracting him, his drawing acts as an aid to 
concentration; 
it occupies the visual part of his brain while freeing his mind 
to focus on what is being said. ‘The inner narcolept,’ as he puts it, ‘can be 
triumphed 
over by any of the techniques of shading, especially the rhythmic 
bliss of cross-hatching.’2 CP

1. Gombrich (1999) pp. 212–25.
2. Phillips (2005) introduction, p. 9, unpaginated.




great british drawings · 327 

Bibliography

Alderson, Brian, Edward 
Ardizzone: A Bibliographic 
Commentary (Pinner, Middlesex, 
2003)

Alley, Ronald, Graham Sutherland 
(exh. cat., Tate, London, 1982)

Anderson, William, Cecil Collins: 
The Quest for the Great Happiness 
(London, 1988)

Annely Juda Fine Art, David 
Hockney: The Arrival of Spring (exh. 
cat., London, 2014)

Ardizzone, Edward, Diary of a 
War Artist (London, 1974)

Arts Council of Great 
Britain, Gwen John: 
A Retrospective Exhibition (exh. 
cat., London, 1968)

Arts Council of Great 
Britain, Burne-Jones: The 
Paintings, Graphic and Decoration 
Work of Sir Edward Burne-Jones 
1833–1898 (exh. cat., London, 
1975)

Bailey, Colin, ‘The English 
Poussin – an Introduction to 
the Life and Work of George 
Augustus Wallis’, Annual Report 
and Bulletin, Walker Art Gallery, 
Liverpool, 7 (1975–6), pp. 34–57

Baker, Phil, Austin Osman Spare: 
The Life and Legend of London’s Lost 
Artist (Devizes, 2012)

Barber, Noël, Conversations with 
Painters (London, 1954)

Baron, Wendy, Miss Ethel Sands 
and Her Circle (London, 1977)

Baron, Wendy, Sickert: Paintings 
and Drawings (London and New 
Haven, 2006)

Becker, Edwin, Elizabeth 
Prettejohn, Edward Morris, 
Julian Treuherz et al., Sir Lawrence 
Alma-Tadema (exh. cat., Van 
Gogh Museum, Amsterdam, and 
Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool, 
1996)

Beddington, Charles, Canaletto 
in England: A Venetian Artist 
Abroad, 1746–1755 (exh. cat., 
Dulwich Picture Gallery, London, 
2006)

Beetles, Alexander, ‘James 
Gillray’ in The Long Nineteenth 
Century: Treasures and Pleasures 
I From the French Revolution 
(exh. cat., Chris Beetles Gallery, 
London, 2013)

Bell, Charles Francis, and 
Reginald Lane Poole, English 
17th-century Portrait Drawings in 
Oxford Collections, Walpole Society, 
14 (London, 1926)

Bell, Charles Francis, and 
Thomas Girtin, The Drawings 
and Sketches of John Robert Cozens: 
a catalogue with an historical 
introduction (Oxford, 1934–5)

Belsey, Hugh, Thomas 
Gainsborough: A Country Life 
(London, 2002)

Bell, Malcolm, Drawings of Sir E. 
J. Poynter (London, 1905)

Bennett, Mary, Ford Madox 
Brown: A Catalogue Raisonné, 2 vols 
(New Haven and London, 2010)

Binyon, Laurence, English Water-
colours (London, 1933)

Black, Jonathan, The Graphic Art 
of Eric Kennington (London, 2001)

Blake, Nicholas, and Richard 
Lawrence, The Illustrated 
Companion to Nelson’s Navy 
(first publ. London, 1999; 
Mechanicsburg, PA, 2005)

Bone, Sylvester, Sir Muirhead 
Bone: Artist and Patron (London, 
2009)

Bronkhurst, Judith, William 
Holman Hunt: A Catalogue 
Raisonné, 2 vols (New Haven and 
London, 2006)

Brown, Christopher, ed., Master 
Drawings (exh. cat., Ashmolean 
Museum, Oxford, 2013)

Brown, David Blayney, Catalogue 
of the Collection of Drawings at the 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, IV: 
Early English Drawings (Oxford, 
1982)

Brown, David Blayney, Samuel 
Palmer 1805–1881: A Catalogue 
Raisonné of the Paintings and 
Drawings, and a Selection of the 
Prints in the Ashmolean Museum 
(Oxford, 1983)

Brown, David Blayney, 
‘A Chinaman found in Western 
Art’, The Ashmolean, 6 (Oxford, 
1984–5), p. 10

Brown, David Blayney, Sir David 
Wilkie: Drawings and Sketches in the 
Ashmolean Museum (Oxford, 1985)

Brown, David Blayney, The 
Pre-Raphaelites in Oxford (exh. cat., 
Tokyo, Shiga and Osaka, 1987)

Bryant, Barbara, G. F. Watts 
Portraits: Fame and Beauty in 
Victorian Society (exh. cat., 
National Portrait Gallery, 
London, 2004)

Buckeridge, Bainbrigg, ‘An 
Essay towards an English School 
of Painters’, in Roger de Piles, The 
Art of Painting, and the Lives of the 
Painters, transl. John Savage (first 
publ. London, 1706; 3rd edn., 
1754)

Burne-Jones, Georgiana, 
Memorials of Edward Burne-Jones, 2 
vols (London, 1904)

Butlin, Martin, The Paintings and 
Drawings of William Blake, 2 vols 
(New Haven, 1981)

Campbell, Mungo, Allan 
Ramsay: Portraits of the 
Enlightenment (exh. cat., 
Hunterian Museum, Glasgow, 
2013)

Causey, Andrew, Paul Nash 
(Oxford, 1980)

Cherry, Deborah, Painting 
Women: Victorian Women Artists 
(London, 1987)

Chitty, Susan, Gwen John 
1876–1939 (London, 1981)

Christian, John, Letters to Katie 
from Edward Burne-Jones (London, 
1988)

Christian, John, Edward 
Burne-Jones: The Hidden Humorist 
(London, 2011)

Clemence, Christianna, and 
Nicholas Ardizzone, Edward 
Ardizzone RA, 1900–1979, 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford: 
A Centenary Celebration (exh. cat., 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, 
2000)

Conner, Patrick, George Chinnery 
1774–1852: Artist of India and the 
China Coast (Suffolk, 1993)

Cork, Richard, David Bomberg 
(exh. cat., Tate, London, 1988)

Cruise, Colin, Pre-Raphaelite 
Drawing (exh. cat., Birmingham 
Museums and Art Gallery, 
Birmingham, 2012)

Cunningham, Allan, The Life of 
Sir David Wilkie: his Journals, Tours 
and Critical Remarks on Works of Art; 
and a Selection of his Correspondence, 
3 vols (London, 1843)

Dimbleby, Josceline, A Profound 
Secret: May Gaskell, her daughter 
Amy and Edward Burne-Jones 
(London, 2004)

Dodgson, Campbell, and 
C.E. Montague, British Artists 
at the Front, IV, Eric Kennington 
(London, 1918)

Eates, Margot, et al., Paul 
Nash: Paintings, Drawings and 
Illustrations (London, 1948)

Edwards, Paul, Wyndham Lewis: 
Art and War (London, 1992)

Elzea, Betty, Frederick Sandys, 
1829–1904: A Catalogue Raisonné 
(Woodbridge, 2001)

Fagan, Louis, A Descriptive 
Catalogue of the Engraved Works of 
William Faithorne (London, 1888)

Foskett, Daphne, Samuel Cooper 
and his Contemporaries (London, 
1974)

Fredeman, William E., ed., The 
Correspondence of Dante Gabriel 
Rossetti: the Formative Years 
1835–1862, 2 vols (Cambridge, 
2002)

Funnell, Peter, Millais: Portraits 
(exh. cat., National Portrait 
Gallery, London, 1999)

Gaja, Katerine, G. F. Watts in Italy: 
A Portrait of the Artist as a Young 
Man (Florence, 1995)

George, Mary Dorothy, Catalogue 
of Political and Personal Satires 
preserved in the Department of Prints 
and Drawings in the British Museum, 
11 vols (London, 1870–1954)

Gibson-Wood, Carol, ‘Jonathan 
Richardson as a Draftsman’, 
Master Drawings 32, 3 (autumn 
1994) pp. 203–29

Gill, Eric, Twenty-Five Nudes 
(London, 1938)

Gill, Eric, Autobiography 
(London, 1992)

Girtin, Thomas, and David 
Loshak, The Art of Thomas Girtin 
(London, 1954)

Goldman, Paul, John Everett 
Millais, Illustrator and Narrator 
(exh. cat., Birmingham Museums 
and Art Gallery, Birmingham, 
2004)

Gombrich, Ernst H., The Uses of 
Images: Studies in the Social Function 
of Art and Visual Communication 
(London, 1999)

Gough, Paul, Sally Allen, 
and Tehmina Goshar, Graham 
Sutherland: From Darkness 
to Light – Mining, Metal and 
Machines, (exh. cat., Penlee House 
Museum, Penzance, and National 
Waterfront Museum, Swansea, 
2013)

Gough, Paul, Brothers in Arms: 
John and Paul Nash and the 
Aftermath of the Great War (Bristol, 
2014)

Graves Art Gallery, Eric 
Ravilious 1903–42: A Memorial 
Exhibition of Watercolours, Wood 
Engravings, Designs (Sheffield, 
1958)

Grego, Joseph, Rowlandson the 
Caricaturist: A Selection from his 
Works, with Anecdotal Descriptions 
of his Famous Caricatures and 
a Sketch of his Life, Times, and 
Contemporaries, 2 vols (London, 
1880)

Guiterman, Helen, and Briony 
Llewellyn, David Roberts (Oxford, 
1986)

Hall, Charles, Paul Nash: Aerial 
Creatures, (exh. cat., Imperial War 
Museum, London, 1997)

Hall, John N., Max Beerbohm 
Caricatures (New Haven and 
London, 1997)

Hamlyn, Robin, Michael 
Phillips, Peter Ackroyd, and 
Marilyn Butler, William Blake 
(exh. cat., Tate, London, 2000)

Hammer, Martin, Graham 
Sutherland: Landscapes, War Scenes, 
Portraits 1924–1950 (exh. cat., 
Dulwich Picture Gallery, London, 
2005)

Harries, Meirion and Susan, The 
War Artists: British Official War Art 
of the Twentieth Century (London, 
1983)

Harrison, Colin, Turner’s Oxford 
(exh. cat., Ashmolean Museum, 
Oxford, 2000)

Harrison, Colin, and 
Christopher Newall, et. al., The 
Pre-Raphaelites and Italy (exh. cat., 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, 
and Museo d’Arte della Città di 
Ravenna, 2010)

Harrison, Colin, Edward Lear’s 
Alphabet of Nonsense (Oxford, 
2012)

Harrison, Martin and Bill 
Waters, Burne-Jones (London, 
1973)

Hart-Davies, Rupert, 
A Catalogue of the Caricatures of Max 
Beerbohm (London, 1972)

Hawcroft, Francis, Watercolours 
by John Robert Cozens (exh. 
cat., Whitworth Art Gallery, 
Manchester, 1971)

Hawcroft, Francis, Travels 
in Italy 1776–1873: based on 
the Memoirs of Thomas Jones 
(Manchester, 1988)

Hayes, John T., The Drawings 
of Thomas Gainsborough, 2 vols 
(London, 1970)

Hayes, John T., The Art of 
Thomas Rowlandson (exh. cat., 
Frick Collection, New York, 
and Baltimore Museum of Art, 
Baltimore, 1990)

Hazlitt Holland-Hibbert, 
Augustus John: Masterworks from 
Private Collections 1900–20 (exh. 
cat., Hazlitt’s, London and New 
York, 2004)

Herrmann, Luke, ‘“This patient 
and unassuming master”: William 
Turner of Oxford’, Connoisseur 
CLXII (1966) pp. 242–7

Herrmann, Luke, Ruskin and 
Turner: A Study of Ruskin as a 
Collector of Turner, based on his 
gifts to the University of Oxford; 
incorporating a Catalogue Raisonné 
of the Turner Drawings in the 
Ashmolean Museum (London, 
1968)

Hewison, Robert, Ruskin’s 
Venice (Yelvertoft Manor, 
Northamptonshire, 2000)

Hill, David, Thomas Girtin: 
Genius in the North (exh. cat., 
Harewood House, Yorkshire, 
1999)

Hodnett, Edward, Francis 
Barlow: First Master of English Book 
Illustration (London, 1978)

Holroyd, Michael, Mark L. 
Evans, and Rebecca John, Themes 
and Variations: The Drawings of 
Augustus John 1901–31 (exh. cat., 
National Museum and Gallery, 
Cardiff, and Spink & Son Ltd., 
London, 1996)

Hughes, Robert, Frank Auerbach 
(London, 1990)

Hurrell, Bill, Sacred and Profane: 
Drawing to a Conclusion (London, 
1997)

Hyman, Susan, Edward Lear in the 
Levant: Travels in Albania, Greece 
and Turkey in Europe 1848–1849 
(London, 1988)

Hyman, Susan, Edward Lear: 
A New Nonsense Alphabet (London, 
1988)

ingamells, John, and Brinsley 
Ford, A Dictionary of British and 
Irish Travellers in Italy, 1701–1800 
(New Haven and London, 1997)

Ingrams, Richard, and John 
Piper, Piper’s Places: John Piper in 
England & Wales (London, 1983)

Ives, Colta, et al., Vincent Van 
Gogh: The Drawings (exh. cat., 
Metropolitan Museum of Art, 
New York, 2005)

Jeffares, Neil, Dictionary of 
Pastellists before 1800 (London, 
2006)

Jenkins, David Fraser, Augustus 
John: Studies for Compositions, 
Centenary Exhibition (ex. cat., 
National Museum of Wales, 
Cardiff, 1978)

Jenkins, David Fraser, John 
Piper: The Robert and Rena Lewin 
Gift to the Ashmolean Museum, 
(exh. cat., Ashmolean Museum, 
Oxford, 1992)

Jenkins, David Fraser, and 
Frances Spalding, John Piper in the 
1930s: Abstraction on the Beach (exh. 
cat., Dulwich Picture Gallery, 
London, 2003)

Jenkins, David Fraser, and 
Chris Stephens, eds., Gwen John 
and Augustus John (exh. cat., Tate, 
London, 2004)

Jenkins, David Fraser, and 
David Boyd Haycock, Paul Nash: 
The Elements (exh. cat., Dulwich 
Picture Gallery, London, 2010)

Jones, Tom, William Henry 
Hunt 1790–1864 (exh. cat., 
Wolverhampton Art Gallery, 
Wolverhampton, 1981)

Kitson, Sydney D., The Life of John 
Sell Cotman (London, 1937)

Klonsky, Milton, Blake’s Dante: 
The Complete Illustations to the 
Divine Comedy (London, 1980)

Konody, Paul G., and Sidney 
Dark, Sir William Orpen: Artist and 
Man (London, 1932)

Lampert, Catherine, Norman 
Rosenthal, and Isabel Carlisle, 
Frank Auerbach: Paintings and 
Drawings 1954–2001 (exh. cat., 
Royal Academy of Arts, London, 
2001)

326



Langdale, Cecily, and David 
Fraser Jenkins, Gwen John: An 
Interior Life (London, 1985)

Langdale, Cecily, Gwen John: 
Catalogue Raisonné (London and 
New Haven, 1987)

levinson, Orde, Quality and 
Experiment: The Prints of John Piper: 
A Catalogue Raisonné (London, 
1996)

Lewis, Major-General Michael, 
John Frederick Lewis, RA (Leigh-
on-Sea, 1978)

Lister, Raymond, Catalogue 
Raisonné of the Works of Samuel 
Palmer (Cambridge, 1988)

Livingstone, Marco, Pop Art: 
A Continuing History (London, 
1990)

Livingstone, Marco, and Kay 
Heymer, Hockney’s Portraits and 
People (London and New York, 
2003)

Lloyd-Morgan, Ceridwen, 
Gwen John: Letters and Notebooks 
(London, 2004)

Lockett, Richard, Samuel Prout 
1783–1852 (exh. cat., Victoria and 
Albert Museum, London, 1985)

London, Pre-Raphaelite and 
other Masters: The Andrew Lloyd 
Webber Collection (exh. cat., Royal 
Academy of Arts, London, 2003)

Lord, John, ed., Peter de Wint 
1784–1849: ‘For the Common 
Observer of Life and Nature’ (exh. 
cat., Lincoln, 2007)

Luckhardt, Ulrich, and Paul 
Melia, David Hockney: a Drawing 
Retrospective (London and New 
York, 1995)

Lyles, Anne, Turner and Natural 
History: The Farnley Project (exh. 
cat., Tate, London, 1988)

Lyles, Anne and Robin Hamlyn, 
British Watercolours from the 
Oppé Collection; with a selection of 
drawings and oil sketches (exh. cat., 
Tate, London, 1997)

MacCarthy, Fiona, Eric Gill 
(London, 1989)

MacCarthy, Fiona, The Last 
Pre-Raphaelite: Burne-Jones and the 
Victorian Imagination (London, 
2011)

Manchester, Whitworth Art 
Gallery, Walter Sickert: ‘Drawing is 
the Thing’ (exh.cat., 2004)

Mancoff, Debra N., Burne-Jones 
(San Francisco, 1998)

Mannings, David, and Martin 
Postle, Sir Joshua Reynolds: 
A Complete Catalogue of his 
Paintings, 2 vols (New Haven, 
2000)

Marsh, Jan, Dante Gabriel 
Rossetti: Painter and Poet (London, 
1999)

Martin, Simon, Martin Butlin, 
and Robert Meyrick, Poets in the 
Landscape: The Romantic Spirit 
in British Art (exh. cat., Pallant 
House, Chichester, 2007)

McEvansoneya, Philip, ‘“A 
thing to be seen”: Creating the 
Crampton Collection of English 
Watercolours in the 1850s’, Journal 
of the History of Collections, 21:1 
(Oxford, 2009) pp. 95–110

McEwen, John, William Gear 
(Aldershot and Burlington, 2003)

Michel, Walter, Wyndham Lewis: 
Paintings and Drawings (London, 
1971)

Millar, Oliver, Sir Peter Lely 
(London, 1978)

Moore, Andrew W., John Sell 
Cotman 1782–1842 (exh. cat., 
Norwich Castle Museum, 
Norwich, 1982)

Morris, William, News from 
Nowhere and Other Writings, ed., 
Clive Wilmer (Harmondsworth, 
1993)

Mumford, Alan, Low: The 
Twentieth Century’s Greatest 
Cartoonist, 40 years of British history 
through the cartoons of Sir David Low 
(London, 2002)

Newall, Christopher, John 
William Inchbold: Pre-Raphaelite 
Landscape Artist (exh. cat., Leeds 
City Art Gallery, Leeds, 1993)

Newall, Christopher, Scott 
Wilcox, and Colin Harrison, The 
Poetry of Truth: Alfred William Hunt 
and the Art of Landscape (exh. cat., 
Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, 
2004)

Noakes, Vivien, Edward Lear: The 
Life of a Wanderer (London, 1968)

Noakes, Vivien, Edward Lear, 
1812–1888 (exh. cat., Royal 
Academy of Arts, London, 1985)

Noakes, Vivien, ed., Edward Lear: 
Selected Letters (Oxford, 1988)

Noakes, Vivien, Edward Lear 
1812–1888 (exh. cat. Royal 
Academy of Arts, London, 1988)

Nash, Paul, Outline: An 
Autobiography and Other Writings 
(London, 1948)

Nash, Paul, and Gordon 
Bottomley, Poet and Painter: Letters 
between Paul Nash and Gordon 
Bottomley, 1910–1946 (London, 
1955)

National Gallery, The 
Drawings of Augustus John, RA (exh. 
cat., London, 1940)

National Portrait Gallery, 
Colonel Blimp and Friends: the 
Cartoons of Sir David Low (1891–
1963) (exh. cat., London, 1985–6)

Paley, Morton D., Samuel Taylor 
Coleridge and the Fine Arts (Oxford, 
2008)

Palmer, A. H., The Life and Letters 
of Samuel Palmer, Painter and Etcher 
(London, 1892)

Paschal, Huston, Tom Phillips: 
Works and Texts (London and New 
York, 1992)

Paulson, Ronald, Rowlandson: 
A New Interpretation (New York 
and Oxford, 1972)

Petter, Helen Mary, The Oxford 
Almanacks (Oxford, 1974)

Phillips, Michael, William 
Blake: Apprentice and Master 
(exh. cat., Ashmolean Museum, 
Oxford, 2014)

Phillips, Tom, and Salman 
Rushdie, Merely Connect: 
A Questschrift for Salman Rushdie 
(London, 1993)

Phillips, Tom, Merry Meetings 
(Nottingham, 2005)

Piper, David, ‘A Chinese Artist 
in England’, Country Life (18 July 
1952) pp. 198–9

Pitts, Mike, ‘Stonehenge’, in 
Making History: Antiquaries in 
Britain, 1707–2007 (exh. cat., Royal 
Academy of Arts, London, 2007) 
pp. 225–53

Postle, Martin, Sir Joshua 
Reynolds: The Subject Pictures 
(Cambridge, 1995)

Powers, Alan, Eric Ravilious: 
Artist and Designer (Farnham, 
2013)

Pressly, William L., The Life and 
Art of James Barry (New Haven and 
London, 1981)

Pressly, William L., James Barry: 
The Artist as Hero (exh. cat., Tate, 
London, 1983)

Prettejohn, Elizabeth, The Art 
of the Pre-Raphaelites (London, 
2000)

Redgrave, Richard and Samuel, 
A Century of British Artists (first 
publ. 1866; London, 1947)

Reid, Forrest, Illustrators of the 
Eighteen Sixties: An Illustrated 
Survey of the Work of 58 British 
Artists (London, 1928)

Reynolds, David, The Long 
Shadow: The Legacies of the Great 
War in the Twentieth Century (New 
York, 2014)

Reynolds, Sir Joshua, Discourses 
on Art, ed., Robert R. Wark (New 
Haven and London, 1975)

Richards, J. M., Edward 
Bawden: Penguin Modern Painters 
(London, 1946)

Roberts, Leonard, and Stephen 
Wildman, Arthur Hughes: His Life 
and Works (Woodbridge, 1997)

Rolfe, John, ‘The Identification 
of the Sitter in Harold Gilman’s 
Portraits of Mrs Mounter’, 
Burlington Magazine, 152 (2010) 
pp. 236–8

Rosenblum, Robert, Modern 
Painting and the Northern Romantic 
Tradition: Friedrich to Rothko 
(London, 1978)

Rosenfeld, Jason, and Alison 
Smith, Millais (exh. cat., Tate, 
London, 2007)

Rosenthal, Michael, The Art 
of Thomas Gainsborough: ‘A Little 
Business for the Eye’ (New Haven 
and London, 1999)

Rosenthal, Michael, and 
Martin Myrone, Gainsborough 
(exh. cat., Tate, London, 2002)

Rothenstein, John, John Nash 
(London, 1983)

Rothenstein, William, Men and 
Memories (London, 1931)

Rowland, Christopher, Blake and 
the Bible (New Haven and London, 
2010)

Runciman, Steven, Watercolours 
by Edward Lear from the Collection 
of the Hon. Sir Steven Runciman CH 
(exh. cat. National Galleries of 
Scotland, Edinburgh, 1991)

Ruskin, John, Notes by Mr. Ruskin 
on Samuel Prout and William Hunt 
(London, 1880)

Ruskin, John, The Complete Works 
of John Ruskin, ed., E. T. Cook and 
Alexander Wedderburn, 39 vols 
(London, 1903–12)

Russell, James, Ravilious in 
Pictures: A Country Life (Sparham, 
Norwich, 2011)

Rutherford, Emma, Bendor 
Grosvenor, et al., Warts and All: The 
Portrait Miniatures of Samuel Cooper, 
1607/8–72 (exh. cat., Philip Mould 
& Co., London, 2013)

Sanders, Andrew, ‘Millais 
and Literature’, in John Everett 
Millais: Beyond the Pre-Raphaelite 
Brotherhood, ed., Debra N. 
Mancoff (New Haven & London, 
2001) pp. 69–93

Schiff, Gert, Johann Heinrich 
Füssli, 1741–1825 (Zurich and 
Munich, 1973)

Selborne, Joanna, ed., Life, 
Legend, Landscape: Victorian 
Drawings and Watercolours (ex. cat., 
Courtauld Gallery, London, 2011)

Shanes, Eric, Turner’s Picturesque 
Views in England and Wales 
1825–1838 (London, 1979)

Shaw, George, Graham 
Sutherland: An Unfinished World 
(exh. cat., Museum of Modern 
Art, Oxford, 2011)

Shepard, E. H., Fun and Fantasy: 
A Book of Drawings by Ernest H. 
Shepard (London, 1927)

Sim, Katharine, David Roberts RA, 
1796–1864: A Biography (London, 
1984)

Sloman, Susan, Missing Pages: 
George Richmond R.A. 1809–1896; 
Drawings, Watercolours, Letters, 
Journals, and Notebooks (exh. cat., 
Agnew’s, London, 2001)

Sloman, Susan, Gainsborough’s 
Landscapes: Themes and Variations 
(exh. cat., Holburne Museum, 
Bath, 2011)

Smart, Alastair, Allan Ramsay: 
Painter, Essayist, and Man of the 
Enlightenment (New Haven and 
London, 1992)

Smith, Greg Thomas Girtin: The 
Art of Watercolour (exh. cat., Tate, 
London, 2002)

Smith, Hammond, Peter de Wint 
(London, 1982)

Sotheby’s, Edward Lear: An 
Exhibition of works by Edward 
Lear from the Dayton International 
Collection, assembled by John Dayton 
(exh. cat. Sotheby’s, 2004)

Spalding, Frances, John Minton: 
‘Dance till the Stars Come Down’, 
(revised edn., London, 2005)

Spare, Austin Osman, The Writing 
of Austin Osman Spare (Sioux Falls, 
SD, 2007)

Spencer-Longhurst, Paul, 
The Blue Bower: Rossetti in the 1860s 
(exh. cat., Barber Institute of Fine 
Arts, Birmingham, 2000)

Stainton, Lindsay, British 
Landscape Watercolours, 1600–1800 
(exh. cat., British Museum, 
London, 1985)

Stainton, Lindsay, and 
Christopher White, Drawing in 
England from Hilliard to Hogarth 
(exh. cat., British Museum, 
London, 1987)

Staley, Allen, The Pre-Raphaelite 
Landscape (rev. edn., New Haven 
and London, 2001)

Staley, Allen and Christopher 
Newall, Pre-Raphaelite Vision: 
Truth to Nature (exh. cat., Tate, 
London, 2004–5)

Stephens, Chris, ed., 
A Continuous Line: Ben Nicholson in 
England (exh. cat., Tate, London, 
2008)

Stewart, John Douglas, Sir 
Godfrey Kneller (exh. cat., National 
Portrait Gallery, London, 1971)

Stewart, John Douglas, Sir 
Godfrey Kneller and the English 
Baroque Portrait (Oxford, 1983)

Sunderland, John, ‘John 
Hamilton Mortimer: His Life and 
Works’, Walpole Society, 52 (1986)

Surtees, Virginia, The Paintings 
and Drawings of Dante Gabriel 
Rossetti 1828–1882: A Catalogue 
Raisonné, 2 vols (Oxford, 1971)

Surtees, Virginia, Rossetti’s 
Portraits of Elizabeth Siddal: 
A Catalogue of the Drawings and 
Watercolours (Oxford, 1991)

Surtees, Virginia, The Actress 
and the Brewer’s Wife: Two Victorian 
Vignettes (Norwich, 1997)

Suttle, E. F. A., ‘Henry 
Aldrich, Dean of Christ Church’, 
Oxoniensia 5 (1940)

Taylor, Judy, Edward Ardizzone: 
Sketches for Friends (London, 2000)

Treuherz, Julian, Elizabeth 
Prettejohn, and Edwin Becker, 
Dante Gabriel Rossetti (exh. cat., 
Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool, 
and Van Gogh Museum, 
Amsterdam, 2003)

Treuherz, Julian, Ford Madox 
Brown: Pre-Raphaelite Pioneer (exh. 
cat., Manchester City Art Gallery, 
2011)

Upstone, Robert, ed., William 
Orpen: Politics, Sex and Death 
(London, 2005)

Upstone, Robert, ed., Modern 
Painters: The Camden Town Group 
(exh. cat., Tate, London, 2008)

Vaughan, Keith, Journal & 
Drawings (London, 1966)

Vaughan, William, Elizabeth 
E. Barker, and Colin Harrison, 
Samuel Palmer 1805–1881: 
Vision and Landscape (exh. cat., 
British Museum, London, and 
Metropolitan Museum of Art, 
New York, 2005–6)

Wark, Robert R., Drawings 
by Thomas Rowlandson in the 
Huntington Collection (San Marino, 
California, 1975)

Warrell, Ian, Turner on the Loire 
(exh. cat., Tate, London, 1997)

Warrell, Ian, Turner and Venice 
(exh. cat., Tate, London, 2003)

Weaver, Nigel, Robin O’Neill, 
and Edward Bawden, Edward 
Bawden in the Middle East 
(Woodbridge, 2008)

White, Christopher, Catherine 
Whistler, and Colin Harrison, Old 
Master Drawings from the Ashmolean 
Museum (Oxford, 1992)

Wilcox, Scott, Sun, Wind, and 
Rain: The Art of David Cox (exh. 
cat., Birmingham Museums and 
Art Gallery, Birmingham, 2008)

Wilcox, Timothy, and 
Christopher Titterington, William 
Turner of Oxford (1789–1862) (exh. 
cat., Woodstock, 1984)

Wilcox, Timothy, Francis Towne 
(exh. cat., Tate, London, 1997)

Wild, Monika von, George 
Augustus Wallis (1761–1847): 
Englischer Landschaftsmaler – 
Monographie und Oeuvrekatalog 
(Frankfurt, 1996)

Wildman, Stephen, and John 
Christian, Edward Burne-Jones: 
Victorian Artist-Dreamer (exh.
cat., Metropolitan Museum of 
Art, New York, and Birmingham 
Museums and Art Gallery, 
Birmingham, 1998)

Wilton, Andrew, The Life and 
Work of J. M. W. Turner (London, 
1979)

Wilton, Andrew, and Anne 
Lyles, The Great Age of British 
Watercolours, 1750–1880 (exh. cat., 
Royal Academy of Art, London, 
and National Gallery of Art, 
Washington DC, 1993)

Witt, John, William Henry Hunt 
1790–1864 (London, 1982)

Zimmern, Helen, Sir Lawrence 
Alma-Tadema RA (London, 1902)

Zwemmer Gallery, Eric 
Ravilious: Catalogue of an Exhibition 
of Water-Colour Drawings (London, 
1936)

328 · Bibliography



330 · Index

Index

References to catalogue entry 
numbers are given in bold

The Abbey from the Churchyard, 
Arbroath (John Piper), 110

The Academicians of the Royal Academy 
(Johann Zoffany), 72

Academy Notes (John Ruskin), 35

Academy of St Luke, Edinburgh, 68

see also art academies/schools

Acceptance in Lieu scheme, 48

Ackermann, Rudolph

‘Cattle not Insurable’, 298

Repository of Arts, 31

Adam, Robert, 68

Adler, Jankel, 276

Aesop’s Fables, 290

After Picasso (James Thrall Soby), 272

Afternoon in Spring, with South Wind, 
at Neuchâtel (John Ruskin), fig. 44

Aircraftman Shaw (William Patrick 
Roberts), 248

Aitken, William Maxwell, (Lord 
Beaverbrook), 126

Album of Illustrated Letters from Burne-
Jones to Mrs Gaskell (Sir 
Edward Coley Burne-Jones), 121

Alcock, Thomas, The Famous 
Pathologist, or the Noble 
Mountebank, 54

Alexander, William, 38

Allegory of the Union of Britain and 
Ireland (James Barry), 18

Allingham, William, The Music 
Master, 184, 202

Alma-Tadema, Anna, Girl in a Bonnet 
with her Head on a Blue Pillow, 81

Alma-Tadema, Lawrence, 218

American Water Color Society, 39

The Analysis of Beauty (William 
Hogarth), 14–15

‘The Ancients’, 20

——see also Calvert, Edward; Palmer, 
Samuel; Richmond, George


Anderson, A. E., donation of 
drawings to Ashmolean Museum, 
48

Anderson, William, 252

Annotated study of a skeleton (Edward 
William Frost), fig. 5

The Annunciation (Sir Edward Coley 
Burne-Jones), 212

The Antique School at New Somerset 
House (Edward Francis Burney), 
fig. 6

Antonia (Sir Edward Coley Burne-
Jones), 21, 76

Arabs with Camels by a Tomb in the 
Desert (John Frederick Lewis), 43

Arbroath, (John Piper), fig. 64

Ardizzone, Edward Jeffrey Irving

——Diary of a Visit to Dieppe: 
Sketchbook 12, 128
——A Homage to Jock Cumberlege, 288, 
129


Army Best Shots Medal (Sir Edward 
John Poynter), fig. 49

The Arnolfini Marriage (Jan van Eyck), 
180

art academies/schools

——Academy of St Luke, Edinburgh, 
68
——continental, 11
——decline in 20th century, 25
——Duke of Richmond’s Sculpture 
Gallery, 15
——Great Queen Street Academy, 
12–14, 64
——John Ruskin Drawing School, 
Oxford, 22, 44–5, 76, 170, 172
——Leigh, James Matthew, 21
——Royal Academy of Arts, 16–19, 
29–30
——Saas, Henry, 18–19
——Slade School of Fine Art, 24, 224
——St Martin’s Lane Academy, 14–15, 
68
——Westminster School of Art, 318
——Working Men’s College, London, 
22


Artist and Model (David Hockney), 
282

The Artist on the Seashore at Palavas 
(Gustave Courbet), 236

Ashfield, Edmund, Portrait of an 
Unknown Man, 3

Ashmole, Elias, Laws and Ceremonies 
of the Most Noble Order of the 
Garter, 54

Ashmolean Museum, collection of 
British drawings

——Acceptance in Lieu scheme, 48
——benefactors, 43–8
——formation, 43


Associated Artists in Watercolours, 
30-31, 124

Auerbach, Frank, Head of Julia, 6, 
113

Australian Watercolour Institute, 39

Ayrton, Michael, British Drawings, 
272

The Baptism of Christ (William Blake), 
19

Barlow, Francis

——The Fox and the Eagle, 115
——A Political Satire, 116


Barnard, Francis Pierrepoint, 46, 48

Barry, James, 45

——Allegory of the Union of Britain and 
Ireland, 18


Basire, James, South View of Christ 
Church, from the Meadows, fig. 33

Bawden, Edward, 250

Private Kimoi Chemeri, 101

Beach Girl (Colin Self), 280

Beardsley, Aubrey Vincent, Vignettes 
for Le Morte d’Arthur: ‘Female 
Figure’ and ‘a Faun’, 80

Beckford, William, 100, 102

Beerbohm, Sir Henry Maximilian 
‘Max’

——Caricatures of Twenty-Five 
Gentlemen, 306
——Mr G. K. Chesterton, 124
——Oscar Wilde, 123
——The Works of Max Beerbohm, 306


Bell, Charles Francis, 46, fig. 21

La Belle Sauvage (Eric Arthur 
Rowton Gill), 246

The Bellman (Samuel Palmer), 158

Bentley, Thomas, 72

Bevan, Robert, 236

Binyon, Lawrence, English Water-
colours, 36–7, 120

Burnet, Bishop Gilbert, History of his 
own Time, 46, 56

Blake, William, 19–20, 94

——The Baptism of Christ, 19
——The Deity from whom proceed the 
Nine Spheres, 20
——Pity, 256


Blois, (J. M. W. Turner), 46

Blumenthal, Robert, Modern 
Painting and the Northern Romantic 
Tradition, 236

Bocca Bacciata (Dante Gabriel 
Rossetti), 196

Bodleian Library drawings, 42

——Francis Douce bequest, 45


bodycolour, use of, 36

Bomberg, David Garshen, 284

——Evening in the City of London, 
fig. 61, 104


Bone, Sir Muirhead, Low Tide on the 
Portsmouth Hard, 98

Bonington, Richard Parkes, 36, 154

A Book of Nonsense (Edward Lear), 
300

Booth, Sophia, 168

Boswell, James, 72

‘Boswood’s Thigh’ and the right arm 
of Michelangelo’s ‘David’ (George 
Richmond), 20, 21

Bowyer, Robert, Facsimiles of 
Watercolour Drawings, 33–4

A Boy Praying (William Henry 
Hunt), 196

Boy with a Blank Expression (Gwen 
John), 84

Boy with a Blank Face (Gwen John), 
226

Brabazon, Hercules Brabazon, 36

The Brickyard (Eric Ravilious), 96

British Drawings (Michael Ayrton), 
272

Brunton, Mary, Self-Control, 194

Buckeridge, Bainbrigg, 58, 60

Burne-Jones, Sir Edward Coley, 
21–2, 190, 192

——Album of Illustrated Letters from 
Burne-Jones to Mrs Gaskell, 121
——The Annunciation, 212
——Antonia, 21, 76
——Daphne’s Album, open at a letter 
including a self-portrait of Burne-
Jones with a cat, 122
——The Depths of the Sea, fig. 54
——The Garden Poisoned, fig. 51, 75
——The Golden Stairs, fig. 52
——King Cophetua and the Beggar Maid, 
212
——The Knight’s Farewell, 71
——The Masque of Cupid, 212
——The Morning of the Resurrection, 
210
——‘Orpheus’ (‘Graham’) piano, 
figs 50–51
——Phyllis and Demophoön, 212
——The Sleep of Arthur in Avalon, 210
——Studies for ‘The Wheel of Fortune’ 
from a sketchbook of figure and 
drapery studies, 77
——Study for ‘The Depths of the Sea’ from 
an album of 48 drawings, 78
——The Troy Triptych, 210
——The Wheel of Fortune, fig. 53


Burney, Edward Francis, The Antique 
School at New Somerset House, fig. 6

Bust of an Oriental Woman (John 
Frederick Lewis) (attr.), fig. 38

Butts, Thomas, 90

Caiva, Antonia, 21, 208

Calais Sands, Low Water, Poissards 
Collecting Bait (J. M. W. Turner), 
154

Calvert, Edward, 20, 156

Camden Town Group, 234, 236, 
238, 260

Canaletto, The City of London seen 
through an Arch of Westminster 
Bridge, 116

Capel, Elizabeth, Lady Monson, 76

Caricatures of Twenty-Five Gentlemen 
(Sir Max Beerbohm), 306

Caspar (Augustus Edwin John), 82

‘Cattle not Insurable’ (Rudolph 
Ackermann), 298

Catton, Charles, 72

Charity (Sir Joshua Reynolds), fig. 27

Charity (stained glass) (Thomas 
Jervais), fig. 28

Charles Francis Bell (William Strang), 
fig. 21

Chavannes, Puvis de, 216, 224

Chéron, Louis

——drawing academy, 14
——Kneeling male nude seen from behind, 
fig. 2


Chesterton, Gilbert Keith, 308

——Mr G. K. Chesterton (Sir Max 
Beerbohm), 124
——Napoleon: an illustrated clerihew, 
fig. 23


Chinnery, George, 48

——Ruins in Bengal, 37


Christ Church College, Oxford (J. M. W. 
Turner), 45

Christ Church College, Oxford (James 
Redway), fig. 42

Christ Church from the Meadows 
(J. M. W. Turner), 118

Cipriani, Giovanni Battista, 15, 72

The City of London seen through an Arch 
of Westminster Bridge (Canaletto), 
116

Clark, Kenneth, 48, 254, 256, 258, 
260

Collins, Cecil

——The Quest, fig. 58
——Study for ‘The Quest’, 97


Collins, Charles Allston, 182

Combe, Thomas, 180, 182

——bequest to Ashmolean Museum, 
45
——Thomas Combe, (William Holman 
Hunt), 65


Consequences of a successful French 
Invasion, No VI Plate 1st: We fly on 
the Wings of the Wind to save the Irish 
Catholics from Persecution (James 
Gillray), 117

The Consequences of the French Invasion 
(Sir John Dalrymple), 294

Constable, John, 150

Constantinople from Ayoub, (Edward 
Lear), 42

The Contrast: Red and Green Apples 
(William Henry Hunt), 170

Contemporary Art Society, 48

A Converted British Family, (William 
Holman Hunt), 186, 198

Cooke, George, Views in London and 
its Vicinity, 148

Cooke, William Bernard, Thames 
Scenery, 148

Cooper, Samuel, Thomas Alcock, 1

Cornard Wood, (Thomas 
Gainsborough), 78

Coronio, Aglaia, 210

The Corsican, his Two Friends and 
his Bloodhounds at the Window 
of the Tuilleries looking over Paris 
(Thomas Rowlandson), 118

Cotman, John Sell, 32, 36, 37, 130, 
250, 278

——Greta Bridge, 36
——Miscellaneous Etchings, 122
——A Ruined House, 37, fig. 34, 33
——A Series of Etchings Illustrative of the 
Architectural Antiquities of Norfolk, 
122
——The Tower of West Walton Church, 
Norfolk, fig. 35, 34


Count Ugolino and his Children 
(Sir Joshua Reynolds) 70

Courbet, Gustave, The Artist on the 
Seashore at Palavas, 236

Cox, David, 30, 34

——Fishermen on the Thames looking 
towards Westminster and Lambeth, 
35
——Rhyl Sands, 50
——Treatise on Landscape Painting and 
Effect in Water Colours, 124


Cozens, John Robert, 32–3

——Vesuvius and Somma from the Mola 
at Naples, 23
——Villa Madama, near Rome, 24


Crampton, Sir John, watercolour 
collection, 82

Craven, Frederick, 196

Crome, John, 120, 122

Crowland Abbey, Lincolnshire (Thomas 
Girtin), 27

Croyland Abbey (Bartholomew 
Howlett), fig. 32

The Crucifixion (Graham Vivien 
Sutherland), fig. 62

Dalrymple, Sir John, The 
Consequences of the French Invasion, 
294

Dante Alighieri

——The Divine Comedy, 92, 214, 252
——La Vita Nuova, 180


Dante drawing an Angel on the 
Anniversary of Beatrice’s Death 
(Dante Gabriel Rossetti), 62

Daphne’s Album, open at a letter 
including a self-portrait of Burne-
Jones with a cat, (Sir Edward Coley 
Burne-Jones), 122

Dartington Hall, Devon, 252

Dayes, Edward, 108, 110, 118

——Durham Cathedral seen through an 
Arch of Ralph Flambard’s Bridge, 31
——Magdalen College and Bridge, 
Oxford, from the river, 98, 30


De Wint, Peter, 30, 34, 43

——View of Iffley from the River, 47
——View of Oxford from the West, 148


The Death of the Old Year (Sir John 
Everett Millais), 64

The Deity from whom proceed the Nine 
Spheres (William Blake), 20

The Depths of the Sea (Sir Edward 
Coley Burne-Jones), fig. 54

Design for the Cover of ‘How to be 
Topp’ (Ronald William Fordham 
Searle), 130

The Dial (Arthur Hughes), 73

Dialogue on Taste (Allan Ramsay), 68

Diary of a Visit to Dieppe: Sketchbook 
12 (Edward Jeffrey Irving 
Ardizzone), 128

The Divine Comedy (Dante), 92, 214, 
252

Douce, Francis, 88

——bequest to Bodleian Library, 45


Dr Richard Mead (Jonathan 
Richardson), figs 25–6, 7

drawing

——academies, see art academies/
schools
——The Elements of Drawing (John 
Ruskin), 22, 170, 174, 198


Drawing School of John Ruskin 
(Oxford), 22, 44–5, 76, 170, 172

A Dressing Station (Austin Osman 
Spare), 92

Ducros, Louis, 32

——Falls of Tivoli, fig. 13


Duke of Richmond’s Sculpture 
Gallery, 15

——see also, art academies/schools


Dunottar Castle in a Thunderstorm 
(Thomas Girtin), 28

Dürer, Albert, influence of

——on Blake, 19
——on Burne-Jones, 21
——on Rossetti, 21


Durham Cathedral seen through an Arch 
of Ralph Flambard’s Bridge (Edward 
Dayes), 31

Durham from the Red Hills (Alfred 
William Hunt), fig. 16

Earth: Inferno (Austin Osman Spare), 
242

The Eastern Gate (Samuel Palmer), 
fig. 43, 158

El Greco, The Purification of the 
Temple, 258

The Elements of Drawing (John 
Ruskin), 22, 170, 174, 198

Eliot, T. S., The Waste Land, 252

Elizabeth Siddal (Dante Gabriel 
Rossetti), fig. 47, 66

——see also Siddal, Elizabeth


Ellys, John, foundation of St 
Martin’s Lane Academy, 14

English Water-colours (Lawrence 
Binyon), 36–7, 120

The Englishness of English Art 
(Nikolaus Pevsner) (Reith 
Lectures), 29

Enlarged Drawing of a Kingfisher’s 
Wing (John Ruskin), 172

Enlarged Studies of the Feathers of a 
Kingfisher’s Wing and Head, and 
a Study of a Group of the Wing 
Feathers, real Size (John Ruskin), 
58

Ennui (Walter Richard Sickert), 
fig. 55

Entrance to a Lane (Graham Vivien 
Sutherland), 268

Epitome of Painting (Edward 
Luttrell), 58

Evening in the City of London (David 
Garshen Bomberg), fig. 61, 104

Event on the Downs (Paul Nash), 256

Exhibition of watercolour drawings, 
Old Bond Street (Joseph Stadler), 
fig. 12

The Exterior of the Ducal Palace, Venice 
(John Ruskin), 55

Facsimiles of Sketches made in Flanders 
and Germany, (Samuel Prout), 126

Facsimiles of Watercolour Drawings 
(Robert Bowyer), 33–4

Fairy Family (Archibald Maclaren), 
198, 212

Faithorne, William

——John Aubrey, fig. 19, 43
——Portrait of a Man, probably Thomas 
Dare, 4


Fallout Shelter (Colin Self), 280

The Falls of the Ogwen, North Wales 
(Thomas Girtin), 29

Falls of Tivoli (Louis Ducros), fig. 13

The Famous Pathologist, or the Noble 
Mountebank (Thomas Alcock), 54

Fane, Mildmay, 2nd Earl of 
Westmorland, 54

Farington, Joseph, 33

Fawkes, Walter, Ornithological 
Collection, 168

Feather of a Kingfisher’s Back, enlarged 
(John Ruskin), 172

female life models, 14

——see also life drawing




Fielding, Copley, 30, 34

Fishermen on the Thames looking 
towards Westminster and Lambeth 
(David Cox), 35

Fitzroy Group, 234

Fitzroy-Newdegate sale, 72

Five Illustrations for The Moxon 
Tennyson, (Sir John Everett 
Millais) 64

Flask Walk: Rain (Charles Ginner), 
90

Flint, William Russell, 37

Forze e Amore (Augustus Edwin 
John), 224

Four Studies for ‘Victims of Hiroshima’ 
(Colin Self), 111

The Fox and the Eagle (Francis 
Barlow), 115

France Freedom, Britain Slavery 
(James Gillray), 294

A Frank Encampment in the Desert 
of Mount Sinai (John Frederick 
Lewis), 35, 140, fig. 15

Freedman, Barnett, 316

Freeth, Hubert Andrew, Sir Karl 
Theodore Parker, fig. 22

Friedrich, Caspar David, Monk by the 
Sea, 236

Frith, William Powell, 18

Frost, Edward William, Annotated 
study of a skeleton, fig. 5

Fry, Roger, 25

Fuseli, Henry, 18, 86, 94

——Satan, Sin, and Death, 52, 16


Gabriel, Jacques, 146

Gainsborough, Thomas, 33, 82, 88

——Cornard Wood, 78
——Italianate Landscape with Travellers 
on a Winding Road, 14
——Milkmaid with two cows, 13
——Study of a Woman, seen from the 
back, 11


Gallery of the Society of Painters in 
Watercolours (Society of Painters 
in Watercolours), 34

The Garden Poisoned (Sir Edward 
Coley Burne-Jones), fig. 51, 75

Gaskell, Daphne, 304

Gaskell, Helen Mary, 208, 210, 212

——Album of Illustrated Letters from 
Burne-Jones to Mrs Gaskell, (Sir 
Edward Coley Burne-Jones), 121


Gear, William

——page from Palestine Scrapbook, 
fig. 60
——Palestine Scrapbook, July 1943 – 
Costume Notes No. 2, 103
——Paysage, 109


Geldzahler, Henry, Hockney on 
Hockney, 282

Gentle Spring (Frederick Sandys), 214

Geoffrey Chaucer Reading the ‘Legend 
of Custance’ to Edward III and his 
Court (Ford Madox Brown), 196

Gilbert, Sir John, 30

Gill, Eric Arthur Rowton

——La Belle Sauvage, 246
——Sketchbook: ‘Drawings of B.W. 
1928–1930 & S.M.’s hands’, 94
——Twenty-Five Nudes, 246


Gillray, James, 86

——Consequences of a successful French 
Invasion, No VI Plate 1st: We fly on 
the Wings of the Wind to save the 
Irish Catholics from Persecution, 117
——France Freedom, Britain Slavery, 
294


Gilman, Harold John Wilde, 25

——Mrs Mounter at the Breakfast Table, 
fig. 56, 88
——Seascape: Breaking Waves, 220, 89


Gilpin, William, Observations on the 
Western Parts of England, 150

Ginner, Charles, Flask Walk: Rain, 
90

Girl in a Bonnet with her Head on a 
Blue Pillow (Anna Alma-Tadema) 
81

Girl in Neapolitan Native Dress (John 
Frederick Lewis), 132

Girtin, Thomas, 46, 150

——Crowland Abbey, Lincolnshire, 27
——Dunottar Castle in a Thunderstorm, 
28
——The Falls of the Ogwen, North Wales, 
29
——View near Beddgdert, North Wales, 
112
——View of Ely Minster, 108


Gleyre, Charles, 204

The Golden Stairs (Sir Edward Coley 
Burne-Jones), fig. 52

Goldsmith’s Almanack (Samuel 
Prout), 126

Gombrich, E. H., 324

Good Words (Alexander Strahan), 
202

Good Words for the Young (Alexander 
Strahan), 202

Goodwin, Albert, 35

Grafton Gallery, London, 25

Graham, William, 196, 206, 208

‘Graham’ (‘Orpheus’) piano (Sir 
Edward Coley Burne-Jones), figs 
50–51

Graphice (Henry Peacham), 58

Gravelot, Hubert-François, 74

Great Queen Street Academy, 
12–14, 64

——see also art academies/schools


Greta Bridge (John Sell Cotman), 36

Griffith, Thomas, 164

Grignion II, Charles

——Study of a male nude, fig. 29
——Tan-Che-Qua, ‘Chitqua’ RA, 10


Grünewald, Matthias, Isenheim 
Altarpiece, 268

Guercino, 86

Guernica (Picasso), 256, 268

Hackert, Jakob Philipp, 32, 102

Hall, Chambers, bequest to 
Ashmolean Museum, 43

Half the World Knows not how the 
Other Half Lives (Emily Mary 
Osborn), 194

Halt in the Desert (John Frederick 
Lewis), 140

Hamilton, Sir William, 100

Harmony in Blue and Silver (James 
McNeill Whistler), 236

Hayley, William, 90

Head of a Girl in a Lace Shawl (John 
Frederick Lewis), 39

Head of Julia (Frank Auerbach), 113 

Hearne, Thomas, 116

Heath, Charles, 142, 146

Heath, Sir Edward Richard George, 
131

Heman, Felicia, Water-Lilies: A Fairy 
Song, 152

Henry Aldrich, Dean of Christ Church 
(after Godfrey Kneller), fig. 24

Henry Aldrich, Dean of Christ Church 
(Sir Godfrey Kneller), 5

Henry Writing, Lucca (David 
Hockney), 25, 112

Herbert, Louisa Ruth, 67

Hermann, Luke, donation to 
Ashmolean Museum, 48

Highmore, Joseph, 13

History of his own Time (Bishop 
Burnet), 46, 56

History of Modern Wiltshire (Richard 
Colt Hoare), 32

Hoare, Richard Colt, History of 
Modern Wiltshire, 32

Hockney, David

——Artist and Model, 282
——Henry Writing, Lucca, 25, 112


Hockney on Hockney (Henry 
Geldzahler), 282

Hogarth, William

——The Analysis of Beauty, 14–15
——Satan, Sin, and Death (A Scene from 
Milton’s ‘Paradise Lost’), 84, fig. 30
——Seated female nude, fig. 4
——Southwark Fair, 64
——St Martin’s Lane Academy, 14–15


Hollar, Wenceslaus, 56

A Homage to Jock Cumberlege (Edward 
Jeffrey Irving Ardizzone), 129

Homer, Winslow, 39

Hope, Rev’d Frederick William, 
donation to Ashmolean Museum, 
46

Hope, Thomas, 106

Hopkins, Gerard Manley, 212

The Horologe of the Fields, (Charlotte 
Smith), 152

Howell, William, 36

Howlett, Bartholomew, Croyland 
Abbey, fig. 32

Hughes, Arthur

——The Dial, 73
——The Knight of the Sun, 72
——The Passing of King Arthur, 200


Hughes, Thomas, Tom Brown’s 
Schooldays, 202

Hunt, Alfred William, 35

——Durham from the Red Hills, fig. 16
——A November Rainbow – 
Dolwyddelan Valley 11 November 
1866, 1pm, 332, 60


Hunt, Leigh, London Journal review, 
132

Hunt, William Henry, 29

——A Boy Praying, 196
——The Contrast: Red and Green Apples, 
170
——Peach and Grapes, 57
——Portico of St-Martin-in-the-Fields, 
170


Hunt, William Holman, 19, 20

——A Converted British Family, 186, 198
——The Light of the World, 186
——Mrs Thomas Combe, fig. 46
——portrait drawing by Sir John 
Everett Millais, 63
——The Sleeping City: the Cemetery of 
Pera, Constantinople, 61
——Thomas Combe, 65


Hunter, Dr William, 72

Hussey, Charlotte, donation to 
Ashmolean Museum, 45–6

Hysing, Hans, 68

Iconologia (Cesare Ripa), 70

Il Penseroso (John Milton), 158

Illustrated Excursions in Italy, 
(Edward Lear) 138

Illustrations of the Rhine (Samuel 
Prout), 126

Imitations of Modern Drawings 
(Thomas Rowlandson), 82

Imperiali, Francesco, 68

An Incantation (John Hamilton 
Mortimer), 86

Inchbold, John William, 174

Inferno (Dante Alighieri), 252

Inside View of the Hall of Christ Church, 
Oxford (J. M. W. Turner), 32

Isenheim Altarpiece (Matthias 
Grünewald), 268

Israel in Egypt (Sir Edward John 
Poynter), 204

Italianate Landscape with Travellers 
on a Winding Road (Thomas 
Gainsborough), 14

Jackson, Dr Cyril, 118

Jackson, William, 78, 80

James Figg, (Jonathan Richardson), 
13–14, 6

Jervais, Thomas, Charity (stained 
glass), fig. 28

John, Augustus Edwin, 24

——Caspar, 82
——Forze e Amore, 224
——The Lyric Fantasy, 224
——Standing draped figure, 83
——Standing Male Nude, fig. 11, 24
——Standing Woman Draped in a Shawl, 
224
——The Way Down to the Sea, 224


John Aubrey (William Faithorne), 
fig. 19, 43

John, Gwendolen Mary, 224

——Boy with a Blank Expression, 84
——Boy with a Blank Face, 226


John Ruskin (John Everett Millais), 
174

——see also Ruskin, John


The Junction of the Greta and the Tees 
at Rokeby (J. M. W. Turner), 34, 
fig. 14

Keith, William (Earl Marischal of 
Scotland), 110

Kennington, Eric Henri

——The Kensingtons at Kaventie: Winter 
1914, 240
——William Rothenstein, 91


The Kensingtons at Kaventie: Winter 
1914 (Eric Henri Kennington), 
240

King Cophetua and the Beggar Maid 
(Sir Edward Coley Burne-Jones), 
212

The King Plays (Wyndham Lewis), 
102

Kneeling male nude seen from behind 
(Louis Chéron), fig. 2

Kneller, Sir Godfrey

——Great Queen Street Academy, 12
——Henry Aldrich, Dean of Christ 
Church, 5
——Seated male nude, 13, fig. 1


The Knight of the Sun (Arthur 
Hughes), 72

The Knight’s Farewell (Sir Edward 
Coley Burne-Jones), 71

L’Allegro (John Milton), 158

Lady Clare (Elizabeth Siddal), 198

Lady Holland (George Frederic 
Watts), fig. 39, 40

A Lady Leaning on a Pedestal (George 
Romney), 12

Landscape with Cattle Fording a Stream 
(Thomas Rowlandson), 15

Lascelles, Edward, 112

Lasinio, Carlo, Pitture a fresco del 
Campo Santo di Pisa, 20

The last phase demolition at Stoke 
Street, Ipswich (Leonard Russell 
Squirrell), 37, fig. 17

Launcelot at the Chapel of the San Graal 
(Dante Gabriel Rossetti), 192

Lawrence, Sir Thomas, 30, 42, 94

Laws and Ceremonies of the Most 
Noble Order of the Garter (Elias 
Ashmole), 54

The Laws of Fesole (John Ruskin), 172

Lear, Edward, 186

——A Book of Nonsense, 300
——Constantinople from Ayoub, 42, 326
——Illustrated Excursions in Italy, 138
——Nonsense Alphabet, 120
——Views in Rome and its Environs, 138


Legros, Alphonse, 24, 204

Leigh, James Matthews, private art 
school, 21

——see also art academies/schools


Leighton, Sir Frederick, 168

Leith (Paul Sandby), 46, fig. 20

Lely, Sir Peter

——drawing academy, 12
——Sir Henry de Vic, Chancellor of the 
Order of the Garter, 46, 2


Lethe (Frederick Sandys), 214

Lewin, Robert, 262

Lewis, John Frederick, 48

——Arabs with Camels by a Tomb in the 
Desert, 43
——Bust of an Oriental Woman (attr.), 
fig. 38
——A Frank Encampment in the Desert 
of Mount Sinai, 35, 140, fig. 15
——Girl in Neapolitan Native Dress, 132
——Halt in the Desert, 140
——Head of a Girl in a Lace Shawl, 39
——Sketches of Spain and Spanish 
Character, 130


A Life Class at St Martin’s Lane 
Academy (Johann Zoffany), fig. 3

life drawing, 12–14

——see also drawing
——Royal Academy of Arts, 17–19
——Slade School of Fine Art, 24


The Light of the World, (William 
Holman Hunt), 186

Linnell, John, 20, 92, 170

List of the Abbies, Priories and other 
Religious Houses, Castles etc in 
England and Wales (James Moore), 
108

London Journal, review by Leigh 
Hunt, 132

The Lord of Burleigh (Sir John Everett 
Millais), 64

Loscombe, Benjamin, 80

Louisa Ruth Herbert, (Dante Gabriel 
Rossetti), 67

Love’s Meinie (John Ruskin), 172

Loves of the Wrens (Lord Alfred 
Tennyson), 202

Low, Sir David Alexander Cecil, 
Max, Lord Beaverbrook, 126

Low Tide on the Portsmouth Hard (Sir 
Muirhead Bone), 98

Lusieri, Giovanni Battista, 32

Luttrell, Edward, Epitome of 
Painting, 58

The Lyric Fantasy (Augustus Edwin 
John), 224

Maclaren, Archibald, Fairy Family, 
198, 212

Madan, Francis Falconer, bequest to 
Ashmolean Museum, 48

Madox Brown, Ford, 188

——Geoffrey Chaucer Reading the ‘Legend 
of Custance’ to Edward III and his 
Court, 196
——The Nosegay, 70


Madox Ford, Ford, 230

Magdalen College and Bridge, Oxford, 
from the River (Edward Dayes), 30

Malchair, John ‘Baptist’, 114

Malory, Sir Thomas, Morte d’Arthur, 
198, 216

Malton, Thomas, 118

Mariana (Sir John Everett Millais), 
64

Martineau, Robert Braithwaite, 186

Mary Magdalene at the Door of the 
House of Simon (Dante Gabriel 
Rossetti), 190

The Masque of Cupid (Sir Edward 
Coley Burne-Jones), 212

Masterman, Charles, 310, 312

Max, Lord Beaverbrook (Sir David 
Alexander Cecil Low), 126

McCracken, Francis, 180

McNeill, Dorothy, 223

Merton College, (J. M. W. Turner), 144

Michell, Matthew, 82

Mid-Spring (John William Inchbold), 
174

Milkmaid with two cows (Thomas 
Gainsborough), 13

Millais, Sir John Everett, 19

——Five Illustrations for The Moxon 
Tennyson, 64
——John Ruskin, 174
——Ophelia, 174
——The Race Meeting, or The Gambler, 
fig. 9
——William Holman Hunt, 63


Milne, A. A., Winnie the Pooh, 314

Milton, John

——Il Penseroso, 158
——L’Allegro, 158
——Paradise Lost, 84


Minton, John Francis, Young Fellow 
Asleep in a Barn, 107

Miscellaneous Etchings (John Sell 
Cotman), 122

Modern Painters (John Ruskin), 34, 
44, 162, 174, 176

Modern Painting and the Northern 
Romantic Tradition (Robert 
Blumenthal), 236

Monastic Remains and Ancient Castles 
in England and Wales, Drawn on 
the Spot by James Moore (James 
Moore), 108

Monk by the Sea (Caspar David 
Friedrich), 236

Monro, Dr Thomas, 32, 120, 170

Monster Shore (Paul Nash), 256

Monsters (John Hamilton 
Mortimer), 17

Moore, Albert, Study of an Ash Trunk, 
160, 59

Moore, Henry, 174, 268

Moore, James, 46, 108, 110, 114, 116

Morison, Stanley, 246

Morning in Spring, with North-east 
Wind, at Vevey (John Ruskin), 53

The Morning of the Resurrection (Sir 
Edward Coley Burne-Jones), 210

Morris, Jane, 190, 192, 202

Morris, William, 166, 190, 192, 198, 
202, 216, 314

——News from Nowhere, 210
——The Story of Orpheus and Eurydice, 
206


Morte d’Arthur (Sir Thomas Malory), 
198, 216

Mortimer, John Hamilton, 16, 72

——An Incantation, 86
——Monsters, 17
——St Paul Preaching to the Antient 
Druids in Britain, 86


Moxon, Edward, Poems by Alfred 
Tennyson, 64

Mr G. K. Chesterton, (Sir Max 
Beerbohm), 124

——see also Chesterton, Gilbert Keith


Mrs Mounter at the Breakfast Table 
(Harold John Wilde Gilman), 
fig. 56, 88

Mrs Thomas Combe (William Holman 
Hunt), fig. 46

Mulready, William, 18

——Study of a plaster cast of the 
Pancrastinae, fig. 7


The Music Master (William 
Allingham), 184, 202

Nameless and Friendless (Emily Mary 
Osborn), fig. 48

Nanteuil, Robert, 60

Nap and his Friends in their Glory 
(Thomas Rowlandson), 296

Napoleon: an illustrated clerihew 
(Gilbert Keith Chesterton), fig. 23

Nash, Joseph, Portrait of Sotiri, 
Dragoman of Mr Colquhoun, the 
British Consul at Bucharest, fig. 40

Nash, Paul, 24, 37, 120, 250, 278

——Event on the Downs, 256
——Monster Shore, 256




——Outline, 228
——Under the Cliff, 99
——The Wood on the Hill, 85


Nepenthe (Frederick Sandys), 79

News from Nowhere (William 
Morris), 210

Nicholson, Ben, 48

——View of the Harbour at St Ives, 25, 
93


Nonsense Alphabet (Edward Lear), 
120

Norgate, Edward, 11, 54

Norwich Society of Artists, 120, 122

The Nosegay (Ford Madox Brown), 
70

A November Rainbow – Dolwyddelan 
Valley 11 November 1866, 1pm 
(Alfred William Hunt), 60

A Nude Woman seen from Behind 
(Allan Ramsay), 8

Observations on the Western Parts of 
England (William Gilpin), 150

Off Spithead, or ‘Cattle not Insurable’ 
(Thomas Rowlandson), 119

Okehampton (J. M. W. Turner), 39

On the River Charwell, Oxfordshire, 
(William Turner of Oxford) 152

Ophelia (Sir John Everett Millais), 
174

Ornithological Collection (Walter 
Fawkes), 168

Orpen, Sir William Newenham 
Montague, 24

——Peace, 28 June 1919, fig. 66
——Seeing Himself as Others See Him: 
A Caricature of Kaiser Wilhelm II, 
125


‘Orpheus’ (‘Graham’) piano (Sir 
Edward Coley Burne-Jones), figs 
50–51

Osborn, Emily Mary

——Half the World Knows not how the 
Other Half Lives, 194
——Nameless and Friendless, fig. 48
——Study for ‘Nameless and Friendless’, 
69


Oscar Wilde (Sir Max Beerbohm), 
123

Ottley, William Young, 106

Outline (Paul Nash), 228

Oxford Almanack, 42, 114, 118, 148, 
fig. 33

Paget, Lady Harriet, 128

Palestine Scrapbook, July 1943 – 
Costume Notes No. 2 (William 
Gear), fig. 60, 103

Palmer, Samuel, 20, 35, 48, 92, 270

——The Bellman, 158
——The Eastern Gate, fig. 43, 158
——The Prospect, 52
——The Repose of the Holy Family, 96
——Studies of leaves from a sketch-book, 
fig. 8
——Tintagel Castle: Approaching Rain, 
51
——The Valley Thick with Corn, 272
——The Valley with a Bright Cloud, 22


Paradise Lost (John Milton), 84

The Park Bench (William Patrick 
Roberts), fig. 57

Parker, Dr K. T., 48

Pars, William, 16

The Passing of King Arthur (Arthur 
Hughes), 200

The Pastorals of Virgil (Robert 
Thornton), 96

Payne Knight, Richard, 100

Paysage (William Gear), 109

Peace, 28 June 1919 (Sir William 
Newenham Montague Orpen), 
fig. 66

Peach and Grapes (William Henry 
Hunt), 57

Peacham, Henry, Graphice, 58

Penwith Society of Artists, 274

Pepys, Samuel, 60

Pevsner, Nikolaus, The Englishness of 
English Art (Reith Lectures), 29

Phillips, Tom

——Salman Rushdie, 48, 114
——Salman Rushdie as DIY Zola, fig. 65
——Studies for ‘Merry Meetings’, 132


Phyllis and Demophoön (Sir Edward 
Coley Burne-Jones), 212

Picasso, influence of, 25, 324

Guernica, 256, 268

Picturesque Sketches in Spain (David 
Roberts), 130

Picturesque Views in England and 
Wales (J. M. W. Turner), 34, 39, 
142, 144, 150

Pilgrim Trust, Recording Britain 
scheme, 37

Pine, Robert Edge, 86

Piper, John, 37

——The Abbey from the Churchyard, 
Arbroath, 110
——Arbroath, fig. 64


Pitt, William (the Younger), 88

Pitture a fresco del Campo Santo di Pisa 
(Carlo Lasinio), 20

Pity (William Blake), 256

Poe, Edgar Allen, The Raven, 214

Poems by Alfred Tennyson (Edward, 
Moxon), 64

A Political Satire (Francis Barlow), 
116

Pop Art, 280

Portico of St-Martin-in-the-Fields 
(William Henry Hunt), 170

Portrait of a Man, probably Thomas 
Dare (William Faithorne), 4

Portrait of an Unknown Man 
(Edmund Ashfield), 3

Portrait of Sotiri, Dragoman of Mr 
Colquhoun, (David Wilkie), 41

Portrait of Sotiri, Dragoman of Mr 
Colquhoun, the British Consul at 
Bucharest, (Joseph Nash), fig. 40

Poynter, Sir Edward John, 24, 46, 
208

——Army Best Shots Medal or Queen’s 
Medal, fig. 49
——Israel in Egypt, 204
——Study of a Man holding a Spear and a 
Shield, and a Study of a Leg, 74


Præterita (John Ruskin), 22

Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, 21, 45, 
174, 182, 184, 228

——see also, Hunt, William Holman; 
Millais, Sir John Everett; 
Rossetti, Dante Gabriel; 
Stephens, Frederic George; 
Woolner, Thomas


The Pre-Raphaelite Cocktail Party 
(Ernest Howard Shepard), 127

The Princess: A Medley (Lord Alfred 
Tennyson), 176

Private Kimoi Chemeri (Edward 
Bawden), 101

Proserpine (Dante Gabriel Rossetti), 
68

The Prospect (Samuel Palmer), 52

Prout, Samuel, 29

——Facsimiles of Sketches made in 
Flanders and Germany, 126
——Illustrations of the Rhine, 126
——The Rue Mercière and west front of 
Strasbourg Cathedral, fig. 36
——A View in Strasbourg, 36


The Puerta de Alcalá, Madrid (David 
Roberts), fig. 37, 38

Purgatorio (Dante Alighieri), 214

The Purification of the Temple, (El 
Greco), 258

Pyne, William Henry, 29–30, 78, 126

Queen Eleanor (Frederick Sandys), 
214

Queen’s Medal (Sir Edward John 
Poynter), fig. 49

The Quest (Cecil Collins), fig. 58

The Race Meeting, or The Gambler (Sir 
John Everett Millais), fig. 9

Ramsay, Allan, 15

——Dialogue on Taste, 68
——A Nude Woman seen from Behind, 8


The Raven (Edgar Allen Poe), 214

Ravilious, Eric, 260, 278

——The Brickyard, 28, 96


Rawlinson, Dr Richard, 54

Recording Britain scheme (Pilgrim 
Trust), 37

Recruits to the regiment of Skinner’s 
Horse (Anon), 38, fig. 18

Reid, Forrest, 202

The Repose of the Holy Family (Samuel 
Palmer), 96

Repository of Arts (Rudolph 
Ackermann), 31

Reynolds, Sir Joshua, 16–20, 62, 70, 
76, 80, 84, 88, 168

——Charity, fig. 27
——Count Ugolino and his Children, 70
——Study of Charity, 9


Rhyl Sands (David Cox), 50

Richardson, Jonathan

——Dr Richard Mead, figs 25–6, 7
——James Figg, 13–14, 6


Richmond, George

——Abel the Shepherd, 94
——Boswood, fig. 31
——‘Boswood’s Thigh’ and the right arm 
of Michelangelo’s ‘David’, 10, 20, 21
——The Creation of Light, 94


Richmondshire (Thomas Whitaker), 
34

Ripa, Cesare, Iconologia, 70

The River Cherwell, near Woodstock, 
Oxfordshire (William Turner of 
Oxford), 152

Roberts, David

——Picturesque Sketches in Spain, 130
——The Puerta de Alcalá, Madrid, 
fig. 37, 38


Roberts, William Patrick

——Aircraftman Shaw, 248
——The Park Bench, fig. 57
——Study for ‘The Park Bench’, 95


Romney, George, A Lady Leaning on 
a Pedestal, 12

Rooker, Edward, 114

Rooker, Michael ‘Angelo’, 114

Rosa, Salvator, 86

Roscoe, Thomas, Wanderings and 
Excursions in North Wales, 124, 154

Rose and Crown Club, 12

The Roses of Heliogabalus (Lawrence 
Alma-Tadema), 218

Rossetti, Dante Gabriel, 18, 20–21, 
45, 120

——Bocca Bacciata, 196
——Dante drawing an Angel on the 
Anniversary of Beatrice’s Death, 
42, 62
——Elizabeth Siddal, fig. 47, 66
——Launcelot at the Chapel of the San 
Graal, 192
——Louisa Ruth Herbert, 67
——Mary Magdalene at the Door of the 
House of Simon, 190
——Proserpine, 68
——The Seed of David, 190


Rothenstein, William, 224, 91

Rowlandson, Thomas, 86

——The Corsican, his Two Friends and his 
Bloodhounds at the Window of the 
Tuilleries looking over Paris, 118
——Imitations of Modern Drawings, 82
——Landscape with Cattle Fording a 
Stream, 15
——Nap and his Friends in their Glory, 
296
——Off Spithead, or ‘Cattle not 
Insurable’, 119
——The Two Kings of Terror, 296


Royal Academy of Arts

——see also art academies/schools
——Exhibition of British Art 1934, 29
——foundation, 16
——membership of by 
watercolourists, 30
——structure, 16–17
——tuition, 18–19


Royal Watercolour Society, 36

——see also Society of Painters in 
Watercolours


Rubens, Peter Paul, reservations on 
drawing, 11–12

The Rue Mercière and west front of 
Strasbourg Cathedral (Samuel 
Prout), fig. 36

A Ruined House (John Sell Cotman), 
37, fig. 34, 33

Ruins in Bengal (George Chinnery), 
37

The Ruins of Selinunte (George 
Augustus Wallis), 26

Ruskin, John, 126, 146, 148, 188

——Academy Notes, 35
——Afternoon in Spring, with South 
Wind, at Neuchâtel, fig. 44
——donation of drawings to 
Ashmolean Museum, 44
——Drawing School, 22, 34, 44–5, 76, 
162, 170, 172
——The Elements of Drawing, 22, 170, 
174, 198
——Enlarged Drawing of a Kingfisher’s 
Wing, 172
——Enlarged Studies of the Feathers 
of a Kingfisher’s Wing and Head, 
and a Study of a Group of the Wing 
Feathers, real Size, 58
——The Exterior of the Ducal Palace, 
Venice, 55
——Feather of a Kingfisher’s Back, 
enlarged, 172
——The Laws of Fesole, 172
——Love’s Meinie, 172
——Modern Painters, 34, 44, 162, 174, 
176
——Morning in Spring, with North-east 
Wind, at Vevey, 53
——on watercolours, 29, 34, 39
——portrait of by Sir John Everett 
Millais, 174
——Præterita, 22
——Slade Professor of Fine Art, 44
——The Stones of Venice, 166
——Study of a Kingfisher, with dominant 
reference to colour, fig. 45
——Study of a Kingfisher, with dominant 
reference to shade, 172
——Study of Gneiss Rock, Glenfinlas, 
22–4, fig. 10


Rutter, Frank, 234

7 & 5 Society, 278

Saas, Henry, private art school, 
18–19

——see also art academies/schools


Salman Rushdie (Tom Phillips), 48, 
114

Salman Rushdie as DIY Zola (Tom 
Phillips), fig. 65

Sandby, Paul, 31, 33

——Leith, 46, fig. 20


Sands, Ethel, 230, 232

Sands, Morton, 222, 232

Sandys, Frederick

——Gentle Spring, 214
——Lethe, 214
——Nepenthe, 79
——Queen Eleanor, 214


Satan, Sin, and Death (Henry Fuseli), 
52, 16

Satan, Sin, and Death (A Scene from 
Milton’s ‘Paradise Lost’) (William 
Hogarth), 84, fig. 30

Saussure, Horace de, Voyage dans les 
Alpes, 162

Scarfe, Gerald Anthony, Victory 
Celebrations, 131

Schnebbelie, Jacob, 108

Schwabe, Randolph, 24

Scott, William Bell, 21–2, 190, 198

Searle, Ronald William Fordham

——Design for the Cover of ‘How to be 
Topp’, 130
——Souls in Torment, 320


Seascape: Breaking Waves (Harold 
John Wilde Gilman), 89

Seated female nude (William 
Hogarth), fig. 4

Seated male nude (Sir Godfrey 
Kneller), fig. 1, 13

The Seed of David (Dante Gabriel 
Rossetti), 190

Seeing Himself as Others See Him: A 
Caricature of Kaiser Wilhelm II (Sir 
William Newenham Montague 
Orpen), 125

Self, Colin

——Beach Girl, 280
——Fallout Shelter, 280
——Four Studies for ‘Victims of 
Hiroshima’, 111


Self-Control (Mary Brunton), 194

A Series of Etchings Illustrative of the 
Architectural Antiquities of Norfolk 
(John Sell Cotman), 122

Shepard, Ernest Howard

——The Pre-Raphaelite Cocktail Party, 
127
——Winnie the Pooh illustrations, 314


Shipley, William, 16

Sickert, Walter Richard

——Ennui, fig. 55
——Still Life: the Music Room in Morton 
Sands’ House, 91 Cheyne Walk, 
London, 87
——Study for ‘Ennui’: Hubby and Marie, 
86


Siddal, Elizabeth, 180, 190, 314, 
fig. 47, 66

——Lady Clare, 198


Sir Henry de Vic, Chancellor of the Order 
of The Garter (Sir Peter Lely), 46, 2

Sir Karl Theodore Parker (Hubert 
Andrew Freeth), fig. 22

Sketch of a Pheasant, (J. M. W. 
Turner), 168

Sketch of Mackerel (J. M. W. Turner), 
56

Sketchbook: ‘Drawings of B.W. 
1928–1930 & S.M.’s hands’ (Eric 
Arthur Rowton Gill), 94

Sketches of Spain and Spanish Character 
(John Frederick Lewis), 130

Slade, Felix, 24

Slade School of Fine Art, 24, 224

——see also art academies/schools


The Sleep of Arthur in Avalon (Sir 
Edward Coley Burne-Jones), 210

The Sleeping City: the Cemetery of Pera, 
Constantinople (William Holman 
Hunt), 61

The Sleeping Palace (Sir John Everett 
Millais), 64

The Smelting Works, ‘Twin Ladles’ 
(Graham Vivian Sutherland), 100

Smith, Charlotte, The Horologe of the 
Fields, 152

Smith, John ‘Warwick’, 32–3

Soby, James Thrall, After Picasso, 272

Société des aquarelles français, 38

Society of Female Artists, 194

Society of Medallists, 204

Society of Painters in Watercolour, 
30, 32, 124

——change of name, 36
——Gallery of the Society of Painters in 
Watercolours, 34
——popularity, 34–5
——role in promotion of 
watercolours, 39


Society of the Virtuosi of St Luke, 12

Souls in Torment (Ronald William 
Fordham Searle), 320

South View of Christ Church, from the 
Meadows (James Basire), fig. 33

Southwark Fair (William Hogarth), 
64

Spare, Austin Osman

——A Dressing Station, 92
——Earth: Inferno, 242


Squirrell, Leonard Russell, The last 
phase demolition at Stoke Street, 
Ipswich, 37, fig. 17

St Agnes Eve (Sir John Everett 
Millais), 64

St Martin’s Lane Academy, 14–15, 
16, 68, 70, 86

——painting of by Johann Zoffany, 
fig. 3


St Paul Preaching to the Antient 
Druids in Britain (John Hamilton 
Mortimer), 86

Stadler, Joseph, Exhibition of 
watercolour drawings, Old Bond 
Street, fig. 12

Standing draped figure (Augustus 
Edwin John), 83

Standing Male Nude (Augustus 
Edwin John), 24, fig. 11

Standing Woman Draped in a Shawl 
(Augustus Edwin John), 224

Stephens, Frederic George, 158, 182, 
200, 212

Still Life: the Music Room in Morton 
Sands’ House, 91 Cheyne Walk, 
London (Walter Richard Sickert), 
87

Stonehenge: Stormy Day (William 
Turner of Oxford), 48

The Stones of Venice (John Ruskin), 
166

The Story of Orpheus and Eurydice 
(William Morris), 206

Strahan, Alexander, 202

Strang, William, Charles Francis Bell, 
fig. 21

Studies for ‘Merry Meetings’ (Tom 
Phillips), 132

Studies for ‘The Wheel of Fortune’ from 
a sketchbook of figure and drapery 
studies (Sir Edward Coley Burne-
Jones), 77

Studies of leaves from a sketch-book 
(Samuel Palmer), fig. 8

A Study, in March (John William 
Inchbold), 174

Study for ‘The Depths of the Sea’ from an 
album of 48 drawings (Sir Edward 
Coley Burne-Jones), 78

Study for ‘Ennui’: Hubby and Marie 
(Walter Richard Sickert), 86

Study for ‘Nameless and Friendless’ 
(Emily Mary Osborn), 69

Study for ‘The Park Bench’ (William 
Patrick Roberts), 95

Study for ‘The Quest’ (Cecil Collins), 
97

Study of a Kingfisher, with dominant 
reference to colour (John Ruskin), 
fig. 45

Study of a Kingfisher, with dominant 
reference to shade (John Ruskin), 
172

Study of a male nude (Charles 
Grignion II), fig. 29

Study of a Man holding a Spear and 
a Shield, and a Study of a Leg (Sir 
Edward John Poynter) 74



Study of a plaster cast of the 
Pancrastinae (William Mulready), 
fig. 7

Study of a Woman, seen from the back 
(Thomas Gainsborough) 11

Study of an Ash Trunk (Albert Moore), 
160, 59

Study of Charity (Sir Joshua 
Reynolds), 9

Study of Gneiss Rock, Glenfinlas (John 
Ruskin), 22–4, fig. 10

Sutherland, Alexander Hendras, 
donation of drawings to 
Ashmolean Museum, 45–6

Sutherland, Graham Vivian, 270, 
272

——The Crucifixion, fig. 62
——Entrance to a Lane, 268
——The Smelting Works, ‘Twin Ladles’, 
100
——Thorn Head, fig 63, 105


Symphony in White, No. I (James 
McNeill Whistler), 218

Tan-Che-Qua, ‘Chitqua’ RA (Charles 
Grignion II), 10

Tayler, Frederick, 36

Tennyson, Lord Alfred

——Loves of the Wrens, 202
——Poems by Alfred Tennyson, 184
——The Princess: A Medley, 176


Thackeray, William Makepeace, 
36, 140

Thames Scenery (William Bernard 
Cooke), 148

Thatcher, Baroness Margaret Hilda, 
131

This is Our Corner (Lawrence Alma-
Tadema), 218

Thomas Alcock (Samuel Cooper), 1

Thomas Combe (William Holman 
Hunt), 65

——see also Combe, Thomas


Thorn Head (Graham Vivian 
Sutherland), fig. 63, 105

Thornhill, Sir James, drawing 
academy, 14

——see also art academies/schools


Thornton, Robert, The Pastorals of 
Virgil, 96

Tin Mines (Bryan Wynter), 108

Tintagel Castle: Approaching Rain 
(Samuel Palmer), 51

Tom Brown’s Schooldays (Thomas 
Hughes), 202

Tonks, Henry, 24

The Tower of West Walton Church, 
Norfolk (John Sell Cotman), 
fig. 35, 34

Towne, Francis, 33, 250

——A View of the Cascade in the Groves 
at Ambleside, 25


Treatise on Landscape Painting and 
Effect in Water Colours (David Cox), 
124

The Troy Triptych (Sir Edward Coley 
Burne-Jones), 210

Turner, Dawson, 122

Turner, James Mallord William, 
43, 112

——bequest to the nation, 35, 45, 164
——Blois, 46
——Calais Sands, Low Water, Poissards 
Collecting Bait, 154
——Christ Church College, Oxford, 45
——Christ Church from the Meadows, 118
——Inside View of the Hall of Christ 
Church, Oxford, 32
——The Junction of the Greta and the Tees 
at Rokeby, 34, fig. 14
——Merton College, 144
——Okehampton, 39
——Picturesque Views in England and 
Wales, 34, 39, 142, 144, 150
——Sketch of a Pheasant, 168
——Sketch of Mackerel, 56
——Venice: The Riva degli Schiavoni, 
50–1, 54
——Walton Bridge, 44
——Walton Bridges, fig. 41


Turner, William of Oxford, 30, 44

——On the River Charwell, Oxfordshire, 
152
——The River Cherwell, near Woodstock, 
Oxfordshire, 152
——Stonehenge: Stormy Day, 48
——Waterlilies in the Cherwell, 49


Twenty-Five Nudes (Eric Arthur 
Rowton Gill), 246

Twenty-Five Views in the Southern Part 
of Scotland (James Moore), 110

Two Gardeners (Keith Vaughan), 106

The Two Kings of Terror (Thomas 
Rowlandson), 296

Under the Cliff (Paul Nash), 99

University Galleries, 43–6, 186

The Valley Thick with Corn (Samuel 
Palmer), 272

The Valley with a Bright Cloud (Samuel 
Palmer), 22

Valpy, Leonard Rowe, 158

van Eyck, Jan, The Arnolfini Marriage, 
180

Vanderbank, John, drawing 
academy, 14

——see also art academies/schools


Varley, John, 32, 152, 170

Vaughan, Keith, Two Gardeners, 106

Venice: The Riva degli Schiavoni, (J. M. 
W. Turner), 54

Vertue, George, 12–14, 62, 68, 290

——proposed school of drawing, 13


Vesuvius and Somma from the Mola at 
Naples (John Robert Cozens), 23

Victory Celebrations (Gerald Anthony 
Scarfe), 131

A View in Strasbourg (Samuel Prout), 
36

View near Beddgdert, North Wales 
(Thomas Girtin), 112

View of Ely Minster (Thomas Girtin), 
108

View of Iffley from the River (Peter De 
Wint), 47

View of Oxford from the West, (Peter 
De Wint), 148

A View of the Cascade in the Groves at 
Ambleside (Francis Towne), 25

View of the Harbour at St Ives 
(Ben Nicholson), 25, 93

Views in London and its Vicinity 
(George Cooke), 148

Views in Rome and its Environs 
(Edward Lear), 138

Vignettes for Le Morte d’Arthur: ‘Female 
Figure’ and ‘a Faun’ (Aubrey 
Vincent Beardsley), 80

Villa Madama, near Rome (John 
Robert Cozens), 24

La Vita Nuova (Dante Alighieri), 180

Vorticism, 248, 262, 266

Voyage dans les Alpes (Horace de 
Saussure), 162

Wallis, Alfred, 244

Wallis, George Augustus, The Ruins 
of Selinunte, 26

Walpole, Horace, quote, 12

Walton Bridge (J. M. W. Turner), 44

Walton Bridges (J. M. W. Turner), 
fig. 41

Wanderings and Excursions in North 
Wales (Thomas Roscoe), 124, 154

War Artists’ Advisory Committee, 
48, 254, 260, 266

Warde, Beatrice, 246

The Waste Land (T. S. Eliot), 252

watercolour painting

——British landscapes, 30–1
——collections of given to Ashmolean 
Museum, 46–8
——decline, 37
——historical background, 30–2
——in America, 39
——international impact, 38–9
——‘painterly’ aspects, 33
——popularity of, 35
——Ruskin, John, 29, 34, 39
——status of in England, 29, 36–7


Water-Lilies: A Fairy Song (Felicia 
Heman), 152

Waterlilies in the Cherwell (William 
Turner of Oxford), 49

Watts, George Frederic, Lady 
Holland, fig. 39, 40

The Way Down to the Sea (Augustus 
Edwin John), 224

Webber, John, 38

Weldon, Mrs W. F. R., bequest to 
Ashmolean Museum, 48

Wesley, John, 76

Westminster School of Art, 318

——see also art academies/schools


The Wheel of Fortune (Sir Edward 
Coley Burne-Jones), fig. 53

Whistler, James McNeill, 36

——Harmony in Blue and Silver, 236
——Symphony in White, No. I, 218


Whitaker, Thomas, Richmondshire, 
34

Wigstead, Henry, 298

Wilkie, David, 130

——Portrait of Sotiri, Dragoman of Mr 
Colquhoun, 41


Willans, Geoffrey, 320

William Holman Hunt (Sir John 
Everett Millais), 63

——see also Hunt, William Holman


William Rothenstein (Eric Henri 
Kennington), 91

——see also Rothenstein, William


Wilton, Joseph, 15

Windus, Benjamin Godfrey, 200

Winnie the Pooh, (A. A. Milne), 314

The Wood on the Hill (Paul Nash), 85

Woolner, Thomas, 182

Working Men’s College, London, 
22

——see also art academies/schools


The Works of Max Beerbohm (Sir Max 
Beerbohm), 306

Wrecked planes at Cowley Aircraft 
Dump (Anon), fig. 59

Wyndham Lewis, 24–5

——The King Plays, 102


Wyck, Jan, 46

Wyngaerde, Anthonis van der, 46

Wynter, Bryan, Tin Mines, 108

Young Fellow Asleep in a Barn 
(John Francis Minton), 107

Zambaco, Maria, 208, 210

Zoffany, Johann

——The Academicians of the Royal 
Academy, 72
——A Life Class at St Martin’s Lane 
Academy, fig. 3




The Ashmolean’s collection 
of British drawings and watercolours 
is undoubtedly one of the finest in 
the world. This lavishly illustrated 
book discusses a selection of 120 of 
the Museum’s most beautiful and 
important works on paper by British 
artists, complemented by significant 
loans from private collectors. Many 
of these works have never previously 
been reproduced. 

The full wealth of the Ashmolean’s 
collection is reflected with drawings 
from the mid-seventeenth century, 
to works by celebrated contemporary 
artists including David Hockney and 
Frank Auerbach. Portraits, landscapes, 
figure studies, still lifes, studies for oil 
paintings, and works finished in their 
own right, as well as sketchbooks and 
albums are all represented.

The particular strengths of the 
Museum’s collection, works from 
the ‘Golden Age’ of watercolour 
by renowned masters John Robert 
Cozens, Thomas Girtin, and 
J.M.W. Turner, and outstanding 
sheets by John Ruskin and the 
Pre-Raphaelites form the core of the 
book. Fascinating drawings by Walter 
Sickert and members of the Camden 
Town Group also feature together 
with works by twentieth-century 
war artists, including Paul Nash and 
Graham Sutherland.

This book reveals the spectacular 
breadth of achievement and inventiveness 
of British artists in all drawing 
media, from pencil to pen and ink, and 
from pastel to watercolour, plotting 
the fascinating history of British art 
over the course of three and a half 
centuries.

ISBN 978 1 854442 96 3 

7

8

1

8

5

4

4

4

2

9

6

3

9



