@@1&2

Unknown founder

After Alessandro ALGARDI (1598-1654)

1 and 2. Flagellators of Christ

23.2 cms (height 0of No. 1, figure with both arms raised);

23.5 cms (height of No. 2, figure with right arm only raised);

5.5 cms (height of plinths)

Bronze with a warm brown natural patina retaining extensive patches of translucent red varnish, now partially blackened, especially in the hollows. Hollow, lost-wax casts. There is a performation in the bronze below the loin cloth worn by No. 1, also a plug beside the ankle of the right foot of this figure. Both figures are very finely tooled withy the hair (including hair in armpits and pubes) sharply but boldly cut. The loin cloth is minutely punched. The figures must originally have held separately fashioned whips.

Both figures are mounted on plinths of oak veneered with brass, fire gilt, and with tortoiseshell, fitted with bronze scroll-feet and lion masks, also fire-gilt. (Some pieces of veneer are loose, broken, or missing especially below the lion heads on the back and side faces of both plinths.) There are circular paper labels belowe the plinths with black borders and 'J. FRANCIS & MARGARET MALLETT' printed, and with '27E' inscribed in ink, in the centre. Both plinths marked 'M 176/1' and 'M176/2' in black paint on the corner of the upper ormolu moulding of the plinth  where chamfered.

Bequeathed by J. F. Mallet, who died 7 January 1947. Received in the Museum during the last week of May 1947. No. 176 (1 and 2) in the inventory of his collection where [sic] valued at £100. No provenance supplied.

Described by Mallett as 'Finely modelled and highly finished. Beautiful brown patina. N. Italian. Attributed to Pietro Tacca.' The pair of figures are in fact cast from models almost certainly made by Algardi. Together with a figure of Christ bound to the column, they formed one of the most popular small sculptural groups (of silver as well as of bronze) in European art. The same model for Christ is employed with flagellators of a different design which may plausibly be attributed to Duquesnoy, who is indced credited by Bellori with the invention of a group of this subject (including Christ). Jennifer Montagu has proposed, convincingly, that the more vigorous of the pairs of flagellators-that represented by the Ashmolean's bronzes-originated in models by Algardi. She dates these models to the second half of the 1630s. Of this particular pair of bronzes she writes: 'The casts appear to be reasonably old, although the Boulle-type bases are no doubt of more recent date' (J. Montagu, Alessandro Algardi (London and New Haven, Conn.,1985), i.19z ii. 315-22, no. 9; and for the Ashmolean bronzes 319, no. 9 C. 19). The bases resemble in both style and materials French work of the late seventeenth century of the kind revived in the second half of the eighteenth century, but they may be of modern manufacture; certainly all screw fittings appear to be modern. The figures, which are of as high quality as any other bronze versions I have seen, seem to be either Italian or French. See also No. 434.


@@3

Luigi AMICI (1813-97)

3. Thalia

53.5 cms. (height excluding socle); 13 cms. (height of socle)

Carrara marble. The turned and waisted socle (made of a different piece of marble) has been broken at the base, repaired, and then rebroken. Some chips are missing.

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1899. S.37 in his catalogues. Said in the large catalogue and the notebook catalogue to have been acquired from Amici in Rome in 1853; but in the preliminary catalogue of 1857 the date is given as 1851.

This bust of the Muse of Comedy was evidently acquired with that of Melpomene, the Muse of Tragedy (No. 20), as a companion, this couple in turn forming a pair for the two copies of antique heads by Gott (Nos. 514, 515). Fortnum noted that it was 'Thalia. Copy from the antique statue in the Vatican'. The statue in question is a seated Muse in the Sala delle Muse in the Museo Pio-Clementino which was discovered, together with the Melpomene and other Muses, at the supposed Villa di Cassio at Tivoli in excavations commenced before 1773 by Domenico de' Angelis, and was obtalned for the papal museum by the intervention of Giovanni-Battista Visconti in 1774 (W. Amelung and G. Lippold, Die Skulpturen des Vaticanischen Museums, III. i (Berlin, 1935-56), no. 503--erroneously 508 in plates; C. Pietrangeli, Scavi e scoperte di antichità sotto il Pontificato di Pio VI (Rome, 1958), 139-40). The copy is in some respccts an improvement on the original, in which the leaves in the hair are not completely undercut but retain their bridges. Amici had worked in Canova's studio and was one of the leading sculptors in Rome in the decades following Canova's death. He completed the tomb of Pope Gregory XVI in St Peter's in 1854 and would have been busy with this huge work when Fortnuni visited his studio. Such a bust is likely to have been produced under Amici's supervision rather than executed by him in person and was probably a stock item designed for sale to studio visitors rather than specially commissioned. An identical bust is in the Royal Palace in Madrid (numbered 427 in hollow behind chest), also paired with a Melpomene. Another was lot 246 in the sale of Durwards Hall, Kelvedon, Essex, Christie's, 10-11 July 1989.

@@4

Style of Bartolommeo AMMANATI (1511-92)

4. Inkstand in the form of a faun astride a tortoise

22.5 cms. (height); 19.75 cms. (length)

Bronze with dark brown natural patina with traces of black or blackened varnish in the hollows. Thick-walled hollow cast. Cast in two pieces,; the faun and shell together with the shell of the tortoise forming one piece. There is a plug in the faun's right shoulder and a firing crack in the back of the faun's neck and in the top of his left arm. There seems to have been an extra pouring of metal in teh head. Chaplet pins evident in the interior of the bronze (at faun's right shoulder). 'B/--88/[symbol reminiscent of EF]' is painted in white on the interior of the tortois shell together iwht a recent label numbered '112'. The same is painted in the inside of the body of the tortoise with another label numbered '112' below.

Lent by eD.E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888 and given later in the same year. B. 1088 in his catalogues. Presumably acquired after 1857 when the preliminary catalogue, in which it is not included, was compiled.

An inkpot would presumably have been placed in the shell

held in the faun's right hand. Divisions for pen and sand are

found in the body of the tortoise. Classed by Fortnum as 'Florentine?' and dated to 1580 in his notebook catalogue.Having discoveredd that it was in the manner of Bartolommeo Ammanati (1511-92), he corrected the date ot 1560, and toyed with the idea that it might be by Ammanati, but, surely rightly, confined himself to observing that there is an obvious debt to the latter's eight split-legged fauns, some with similar grins and brushe-hack hair, placed in 1575 around the rim of the Fountain of Neptune in the Piazza della Signoria in Florence--works designed probably in 1560 when Ammanati was competing for the commision. Bode, oddly, seems to have ignored this connection and published the inkstand as a Venetian work of around 1575 (Italian Bronze Statuettes of the Renaissance (London, 1907-12), i. 74, fig. 90). Pope-Hennessy on the other hand regarded it as 'likely that the inkstand is an autograph small bronze by Ammanati' (Italian Bronze Statuettes (Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1961), no.113). J. Draper in his 1980 revised edition of Bode has suggested 'North Italian late Sixteenth Century'.

The surface of the bronze is very dull and the linear pattern of the tortoise shell and skin in particular is blunt and vague. This is also true of the version in the Metropolitan Museum, New York (10.173--in reserve), but less true of that in the Rijksmuseum (J. Leeuwenberg, Beeldhouwkunst in het Rijksmuseum (Amsterdam, 1973), 379, no. 638). (Neither of these versions retains the body of the tortoise as a base.) It is surely very unlikely that any of these three bronzes are autograph works by Ammanati. The casting technique (which may not be lost-wax) does not resemble that of any sixteenth-century bronze inkstand I have inspected. It is possible that they were made in the last century when at least one sculptor was an accomplished mimic of Ammanati's style--this was Francesco Pozzi (1779-1844), who, in 1831, executed the right-hand satyr of the south-east face of the fountain--the 'satyr to left of the marine goddess who looks towards the Marzocco' (A. Lensi, Il Palazzo Vecchio (Milan, 1929), 315, citing F. Moisè, Illustrazione storico-artistica del Palazzo de'Priori, oggi Palazzo Vecchio (Florence, 1843), 169 n.)--as a replacement for one of Ammanati's. This large bronze is, however, a superior cast, the equal of its neighbours and far sharper than the inkstands. For a reduction of a part of Ammanati's fountain on a scale comparable with the inkstands see Christie's, New York, I November 1989, lot 53.


@@5

Foundry of de ANGELIS fils (early twentieth century)

5. Victory

39.3 cms. (height from foot to head); 12.2 cms. (length of shaft);

9 cms. (diameter of marble ball)

Bronze with a dull green patina and simulated corroded surface. Hollow cast, filled with core. A red paste gem is inserted in the bracelet on the figure's left upper arm. Cast without right arm of index finger of the figure's left hand and with empty eye sockets (replicating damaged original). The shaft stamped with miniature letters: 'DEANGELISFILS'. Mounted on a ball of Porto venere marble (black marble with gold veins) and a columnar shaft of ebonized wood (the latter not original).

Bequeathed by the Rev. J. W. R. Brocklebank in 1926. No. 30 on Andrew Shirley's receipt of January 1927 ('A verde statuette, Victory, standing on marble sphere & plinth').

This is unusual among the bronzes in Brocklebank's collection in that it is a replica of an antique, but it is nevertheless not unrelated in taste to his other pieces, and in particular his versions of Gilbert's treatment of the same theme (Nos. 502, 503, 512). The firm of De Angelis was founded in 1840 and prospered in the last years of the last century and in the early years of this, specializing in reproductions of the most popular items in the Naples Museum. Larger works produced by them in the first decade of this century are signed 'S. de Angelis & Fils' (see the life-size Athlete at Cartwright Hall, Bradford, dated 1905 and the reduction of the Adorante sold at Sotheby's, London, 11 June 198z lot 239/2, dated 1907). By 1915 the firm had merged with that of Chiurazzi (which had been established in 1870 by J. Chiurazzi) to form the 'Fonderie Artisiche Riunite'. By 1929 the firm was under the management of Frederico and Salvatore Chiurazzi and know as 'Chiurazzi', or, officially, the 'Società Anonima: Fonderie, Cerimca, Marmoria'. Their catalogue of that year noted that the firm was formerly that of 'Chiurazzi and De Angeelis'. In this catalogue the 'Vittoria' appears as no.93, and was available in four sizes of which one was the size of the original (40 cms.--as here, approximately; two of the others were larger) and in three patinas (Pompeian, Herculanean, and Renaissance, the first, which is used here, being closest to the original and also the cheapest, at 1,000 lire for this size, as against 1,250 for the black Herculanean and 1,500 for the brown Renaissance). The Roman bronze reproduced has the inventory number 4997 in the Naples Museum, and the modern number 576. It is regarded as a copy of a Hellenistic original and is not now included in the popular anthologies, although Chiurazzi's 1929 catalogue describes it as 'questa mirabile statua . . . rimarchevole per la leggerezza del drappo svolazzante al vento e che delinea la svelte forma del corpo'. As Chiurazzi acknowledged, the marble ball is a modern idea (found in the display of the bronze in the Naples Museum). The figure would originally have been suspended from the ring in its back. The bronze in the Naples Museum is also furnished with a wand in the figure's left hand but the figure would originally have held a palm or trophy. The other arm would, it is supposed, have held a trumpet to broadcast victory. A version of the Victory in the Glasgow Art gallery and Museum (93-28d) was purchased from Sabatino de Angelis et fils on 30 March 1893 for £8. An inferior cast was lot 148, Sotheby's, London 4 July 1991.

@@6

Probably foundry of de ANGELIS/CHIURAZZI (early twentieth century)

6. Heroic head

47.3 cms. (height of socle); 26 cms. (diameter of socle)

Bronze of a dull black to dark green patina simulating corrosion. Hollow, lost wax, cast. The upper portion of the back dented. The iron cramp ataching the bronze to the socle loose.

Provenance unknown.

The simulated diaspro di Sicilia marble employed for the socle is of a type often employed by the firm of De Angelis/Chiurazzi (for which see No.5). The bronze is an accurate replica of a fragment of a statue found in the eighteenth century in the Villa dei Pisoni, Herculaneum i [[??]] Museo Nazionale, Naples, inv. no. 5618, modern number 605). It was long supposed, following a theory of Sogliani, to represent an ideal mingling of the type of Dionysus with the likeness of Plato and was known as the Dionysosplaton. Friedrichs considered it an original by Scopas or Praxiteles, but it is now regarded as a hellenistic modification (or sometimes as a Roman copy of a Hellenistic modification) of an earlier model. (A. and B. Maiuri, Das Nationalmeseum in Neapel (Munich, 1958), 66.) In Chiurazzi's 1929 catalogue this is no.4 [[??]] and priced at 2,400 lire for the original size (given as 50 cms. but the same as this version) in the 'Herculanean patina (black). It cost 3,000 lire with a 'Renaissance' patina (brown), and was not available with a 'Pompeian' patina (green). It could also be purchased 28 and 15 cms high. The turned and waisted socle, unhappy in size and shape, reproduces that upon which the bronze in the Naples Museum is mounted. Other versions of this bronze are furnished with an alabaser base (one was with the dealer Edric Van Vredenburgh, Davies Street, London, in the winter of 1989). One in the Art Gallery and Museum Glasgo (93-28b) was purchased from Sabatino de Angelis et fils on 30 March 1893 for £12.

@@7

Perhaps foundry of de ANGELIS/CHIURAZZI (early twentieth century)

7. Adorante

130.5 cms. (height, Including integral plinth, to top of head); 6.5 cms. (height of Integral plinth); 31.8 cms (length and width of plinth)

Metal with a black patina, scratched and worn in small areas of the chest and thigh. Ncither the rusty colour of the metal where it is apparent beneath the patina nor the sound of it when struck suggest that it is of bronze as usually defined. Hollow cast. The plinth has been cast separately, but the feet are very tightly attached. There is a small hole for fixing a leaf above the penis.

Provenance unrecorded. It had been for many years in the basement store of the Department of Western Art when it was, in November 1985, erected in the principal niche of the main staircase of the Museum. The sculpture is unlikely ever to have been acquired by the Department of Western Art and had probably strayed into its store from the Department of Antiquities.

Bronze casts of this famous antique statue were offered for sale in the early decades of this century by the firm of De Angelis and Chiurazzi (for which see No. 5). In the catalogue of 1929 produced by the firm (by then trading as the Società Anonima: Fonderie, Ceramica, Marmoria) it is the 'Fanciullo Orante', no. 734 and offered in four sizes: 127 cms. (the size of the original, as here), 71 cms., 36 cms., and 27 cms. In the original size and with a black or 'Herculanean' patina, as here, it cost 5,000 lire, and with a chocolate brown or 'Renaissance' patina, 6,000 lire. A smaller version of the Adorante marked as made by 'S. de Angelis et fils' and dated 1907 was lot 239(2), Sotheby's, London, 11 June 1987. The Ashmolean's cast is certainly similar in character to bronzes of this size produced by the Neapolitan foundries, but it is unmarked and it is impossible to be sure that it was not produced at an earlier date elsewhere. The 'génie adorant' was cast in bronze by Barbedienne's Paris foundry, for example (one is mentioned by A. de Champeaux, Dictionnaire des fondeurs, ciseleurs, modeleurs en bronze (Paris, 1886), 67), and there is a fine cast datable to 1826 and chiselled on its plinth as 'Gegossen von Krebs, Ciscliert v. Coué' in Berlin-Dahlem (Ex aere solido: Bronzen von der Antike bis zur Gegenwart. Eine Ausstellung der Stiftung preußischer Kulturbesitz Berlin aus den Beständen ihrer Staatlichen Museen (Berlin 1983), 201-3, entry by Peter Bloch).

The fame of the Adorante was such that it should perhaps have been included in the anthology of the most celebrated antique statues compiled by F. Haskell and N. Penny (Taste and the Antique (London and New Haven, Conn., 1981)). The statue seems first to be mentioned by Lorenzo da Pavia writing to Isabella d'Este on 28 September 1503. A Greek bronze statue of a boy had arrived in Venice with arms and one foot broken off. It belonged to a Knight of Rhodes, Andrea di Martini, by whom it seems to have been bequeathed to Benedctto di Martini. A private view was arranged for Isabella. Enca Vico tells a story of how Pietro Bembo donated a spare antique bronze foot from his collection to the owner in order to complete the figure. There is a very curious letter from Aretino to Benedetto of January 1549 in which the statue is described as a Ganymede and ascribed to Phidias and the lower parts preferred to the upper and the back preferred to the front. Aretino also alludes to a story later reported by Fancesco Sansovino in more detail (Delle cose notabili che sono in Venetia... (Venice, 1561), 19r) that Cardinal Nicolo Ridolfi (1501-50) offered a benefice worth 300 scudi per annum for the statue. A copy of the Statue (now in the Musco Archeologico in Venice) was donated to the Venetian state in 1576. This was perhaps the date at which it left Venice. By 1589 it was certainly in the Bevilacqua Collection in Verona. Thence it passed to the Gonzaga in Mantua, and so on to King Charles I of England, to Fouquet at Vaux-le-Visconte in 1661, to Prince Eugène of Savoy in 171z to Prince Wenzel of Lichtenstein, and to Frederick the Great in 1747. In 1787 it was placed in the Stadtschloss in Berlin whence it was removed by Napoleon to the Louvre (where it was to be seen 1808-12). It was still often referred to as a Ganymede in this period. From Paris it was returned to Berlin and the Staatliche Museen. (M. Perry, 'A Greek Bronze in Renaissance Venice', Burlington Magazine (Apr. 1975), 204-11 ; B. F. Tamaro, 'La replica dell'Adorante al Museo Archeologico di Venezia', in Studi in onore di Aristide Calderini e Roberto Paribeni (Milan,1956), iii. 155-69; L. Franzoni, La Galleria Bevilacqua (Milan,1970), 111-23; P. Bloch, 'Der betende Knabe von Sanssouci', Berliner Museen, 3 (1978), 6 ff.)


@@8

Baccio BANDINELLI (1493-1560)

39.7[[??]] cms (height); 13.7 cms. (height of socle at front); 18.3 cms. (diameter of socle)

Pink-grey terracotta with traces of white plaster especially in cracks and hollows. Hollow but with very thick walls. Apertures are concealed behind the beard to proper left. There are hair-line cracks in many places. A chip is missing on the collar to proper right. A portion of the moustache and proper right eyebrow is made up with wax slightly darker than the terracotta. Finger prints are evident in some areas (e.g. in the beard and ear-lobe to proper left). Mounted, by means of lead reiforced with, and largely concealed by, plaster of Paris, to a turned and waisted socle of verde di Prato (Tuscan serpentine). 'S. 24.[symbol similar to EF ligature]' is painted in black on the back of the collar. 

Lent by eD.E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888, given later in the same year. S.24 in his catalogues. Bought by Fortnum from the sculptor and dealer Professor Emilio Sntarelli of Florence in 1870 together with a bust of Lorenzo de' Medici. The socle is shown in Fortnum's photographs  and must have been fixed in Florence. A letter from Santarelli to Fortnum of 19 June 1870 discusses shipping from Livorno (undertaken through the agency of Luigi Stombert). The head had safely arrived on 26 July, followed by Santarelli's certificate, dated 16 August, in which he declared that he had acquired it 'circa venti anni fa'--i.e. in about 1850--from Professore Bibliotecario Ajazzi who had, he understood, long owned it. It was 'formerly in the Laurentian Library whence it had been abstracted many years ago'. In his notebook catalogue Fornum recorded that Santarelli would not for a long while agree to part with this head and the bust of Lorenzo. He paid £40 for the latter: this is likelyh to have cost the same amount. 

Emilio Santarelli, who sold this terracotta to Fornum, had acquired ifrom Ajazzi as a protraid of Cellini. Santarell ialso believed it to be by Cellini. Santarelli was one of the leading sculptors in Florence and also a noted connoisseur (for other dealings between him and Fortnum see the Prliminary Essay). His most famous work was the full-le3nght portrait of Michelangelo completed in 1856 for the Arcade of the Uffizi and he was much concerned with the iconogrpahy of famous Florentines of the Renaissance and incurably optimistic about the portraits of them. Fortnum was at least convinced that it was by Celline, although the possibility of it being by Naninelli had occurred to him. It is 'beyond Baccio Bandinelli, & the rest, and by M. angelo [sic] it certainly is not', he wrote in the notebook catlogue. The attribution is defended at greater length in his large catalogue: 'the vigorous expression, the quiver of the lip, and the admirable treatment of the beard are remarkable. I don not know any other sculptor of the period of its unquestionable production with whose manner it so much agrees. It seems to me too good for B. Bandinelli.' The handling he compared with that in Cellinin's bust protrit of Bindo Altoviti (Isabella Steward Gardener Museum, Boston) and the statue of Perseus in the Loggia dei Lanzi--both of them bronzes, and indeed no comparable work in clay by Cellini--or by Bandinelli--seems to have survived. Fortnum noted that Cellini was said to have modelled a bust of Annibale Caro 'to the medals of whom this bears some resemblence'. eF. Bell, however, annotating the large catalogue, noted that this possibility was ruled out by comparison with Dosio's memorial bust of Caro in S. Lorenzo in Damaso in Rome. Bell also 'inclined' to think that it was by Bandinelli, to whom it seems first to have been attributed by E. Plon (Benvenuto Cellini, orfèvre, médailleur, sculpteur (Paris,1883), 341). The modern literature on Cellini, most recently the monograph by Pope-Hennessy of 1986, does not discuss the terracotta. Maria Grazia Ciardi Dupré in 1963 published the head as by Rustici ('Giovan Francesco Rustici', Paragone, 14 (1963), 45-6), but without giving compelling reasons. Charles Avery in a letter to Ian Lowe of 9 March 1967 speculated that there might be a connection with a marble bust of Andrea Doria recently acquired by the Victoria and Albert Museum and attributed to Montorsoli.

One can see why Fortnum preferred to give this head to Cellini rather than to Bandinelli: he was right to liken it to the bust of Bindo Altoviti (the vigorous treatment of the beard is especially close) and it has the fire of Cellini's bronze portrait of Cosimo and none of the blandness of Bandinelli's marble portrait of the same sitter. On the other hand, the head certainly resembles those in the engraved portraits of Bandinelli and in his own self-portraits (most notably as Nicodemus in the Pietà which marks his own tomb in SS Annunziata in Florence, in the profile relief in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo, Florence, and in the painting in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, Boston). There is a still closer relationship with some drawings by Bandinelli of amply bearded, frowning men, usually regarded as somewhat idealized self-portraits, and perhaps intended as such, of which one notable example is in the British Museum (1895-9-15-555), and another was recently with La Sirène, of 14 rue de L'Eschaudé, Paris (no. 41 in their catalogue of Estampes et dessins anciens (1987) I). But both of these have rounded and softer modelling, typical of Bandinelli's drawings in chalk (and his marble reliefs), which is particularly evident in the hair, which flows forward in ornamental curls, whereas in the terracotta it is roughly clawed back and stabbed.

This need not discourage us from an attribution to Bandinelli, however, for whom working in clay may well have been analogous to drawing with a quill or reed, in which medium his work has a similar jagged energy. Furthermore, there is one marble sculpture by Bandinelli which is so similar to this terracotta that the two works must be closely related: the head of the saint in the niche to the left of Pope Leo X in the latter's tomb of 1536-41 in S. Maria sopra Minerva, Rome--a saint intended for St Paul but consistently misidentified (see R. Ward, Baccio Bandinelli (Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge, May-July 1988), 58-9). If the terracotta is what it seems--a large preparatory sketch for the marble (or even the fragment of a clay sketch for the marble salvaged and baked) then it is a very rare survival, without parallel in the sculpture of its period. The heads are difficult to compare (the marble can only be studied from below) but the differences are slight. In the marble the hair on the crown is more pronounced, the beard neater, the lips more pouted.

A sample was taken from the terracotta by Mrs Doreen Stoneham of the Oxford Research Laboratory for Archaeology and the History of Art in March 1987 and thermo-luminescence tests suggested a firing date between 1487 and 1637 (38l-z-88).


@@9

Foundry of Severo da Ravenna

After Baccio BANDINELLI (1493-1560)

9. Cleopatra

29.6 cms. (height of figure, excluding integrally cast tang); 3.4 cms. (height of base)

Bronze with a greeny-brown natural patina and traces of a red-brown varnish, blackened in parts. Hollow, lost-wax, cast. There is a crack at the back of the figure's right heel. Large holes (0.3 cms. diameter) in the proper left buttock and on the back of the proper right thigh and right shoulder, more or less imperfectly 'filled, evidently derive from chaplet pins which have shaken loose. Mounted on a triangular base with three feet with a large threaded hole into which the tang fits (for the base see below).

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888 and given later in the same year. B.412 in his catalogues. 'bt. Florence 1865.'

Fortnum regarded this as 'somewhat coarsely executed but with a distinctive character': the inept chiselling between the legs, the uncleaned junction of forearm and head, the hideous nipples, the botched modelling of the eyes (one smudged and the other crudely stabbed to suggest a pupil) deserve less qualified censure. He considered it as 'probably intended for Eve, the serpent fondling rather than wounding'. Cleopatra seems more likely, for although it is odd for that heroine to be represented completely undressed, the reptile is more the size of an asp than of the large serpent of the Garden of Eden. It also seems more inclined to bite than to whisper. The design of the triangular base with its feet in the form of abortive fat-headed dolphins and its weak frieze of floral arabesque and its execution--the dolphins and the field of the frieze given a punched texture--are typical of the workshop of Severo da Ravenna and no doubt suggested to Fortnum the idea that it was north Italian of the late fifteenth or early sixteenth century. Bode, however, recognized that the bronze was a copy of a statuette by Bandinelli (Italian Bronze Statuettes Of the Renaissance (London, 1907-2), ii.18), and perhaps for this reason the base began to look wrong. Bell's pencil annotation to Fortnum's large catalogue reads, 'This misleading addition was removed and replaced by amarble plinth 1929' (old photographs show it mounted on a block of porto venere, gold-veined black marble). By the 1970s, however, it had become possible to identify the products of Severo da Ravenna's workshop and to see that the workshop continued in business under the managementof Severo's son into the second half of the sixteenth century using, for the most part, models dating from about 1500. It was quite able to take over a model from Bandinelli. Consequently Anthony Radcliffe pointed out in a letter of 6 September 1976 to Christopher Lloyd that the triangular base was probably original. The base was found by November 1976 and was restored in March 1977. Examination of the bronze and 'X-rays' made from it for Radcliffe and Richard Stone of the Metropolitan museum, New York, confirmed that the technique of the bronze was entirely consistent with Severo's foundry style.

Other versions of the bronze are recorded. One from the Museo Nazionale di Capodimonte, Naples, was exhibited in 1961 (Italian Bronze Statuettes (Arts Council, Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1961), no. 106). Another is in the Abbott Guggenheim Collection and was exhibited at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco (L. Camins, Renaissance and Baroque Bronzes from the Abbott Guggenheim Collection (Sas Francisco, 1988), 20, no. 3). Three casts of the figure, even more coarsely finished and clumsily modelled, with serpents in different positions and the women given idiotic smiles, combine to form the Second lowest set of supporters of supporters of a seven-stage, three-sided, candelabrum (5 1/2 feet high) in the Fine Arts Museum of San Francisco (61.35), the other elements of which are all found in other standard productions of Severo da Ravenna's workshop (it looks indeed like a compilation designed to cope with a surplus of stock).

The bronze in the Museo Nazionale of the Bargello, Florence (no. 354), from which these versions derive is of superior finish and larger--32.2 cms. high (including, however, an integral bronze base about 1 cm. high). The subject has always been identified as Cleopatra and is one of a set of six bronzes identified as by Bandinelli since the sixteenth century, two of which (a Venus with a dove and Jason) also bear his name. Of these bronzes, three are larger than the Cleopatra (Jason 39.8 cms., Venus with a dove 37.8 ems., and a Leda 36.1 cms.), but two very close in size to it (a Venus 33.3 cms. and a Leda 31.5 cms.). Three engraved portraits of Bandinelli show him in the company of similar bronze statuettes, and one of these, showing him surrounded by students drawing them by candlelight, is inscribed by the engraver, Agostino Veneziano, as depicting Bandinelli's 'academia' in the 'luogo detto Belvedere' in 1531. According to Vasari's life (Opere, ed. G. Milanesi (Florence,1906), vi. 153), it was when he was working in the Vatican Belvedere that Bandinelli first made bronze statuettes. This was after 1529 when he had accompanied Pope Clcmcnt VII from Bologna to Rome and was making plans for the adornment of Castel Sant'Angelo. 'To pass the time and to experiment with casting technology he made numerous statuettes alte due terzi e tonde ["height two-thirds of a braccio and in the round"--a braccio being for him about 50 cms.] of Herculeses, Venuses, Apollinos, Ledas, and other figures of his invention [altre sue fantasie] and, having then cast in bronze by Maestro Jacopo della Barba of Florence, they came out superbly.' Vasari notes that he presented these 'to His Holiness and to molti signori and some of them are now in Duke Cosimo's scrittorio, among over a hundred antique pieces, all rarities, and other modern ones'. The Bargello's bronzes have a Medici provenance. They may derive from models made in about 1530, but Heikamp has shown that the Cleopatra was made in 1544, that the Hercules was first recorded in 1549, and that the group of six was recorded for the first time in detail in an inventory of 1553. Chiarini notes that a document of 1550 reveals that three bronze figures by Bandinelli belonging to Cosimo I were then in the shop of the goldsmiths Domenico and Paolo Poggini who may therefore have been responsible for casting them. ('Committenza e collezionismo medicei (Palazzo Vecchio, 1980), 319-20, nos. 649-54, entries by M. C.[Marco Chiarini]; D. Heikamp, 'note' in the edition of Vasari's Vite published Milan, 1964, vi. 39.)


@@10

Workshop of Michelangelo BARBERI (1787-1867), 148 Via Rasella, Rome

10. Circular inlaid slab of 'marble'specimens serving as a table top

127.7cms. (diameter of slab); 3.7 cms. (depth of slab); 77 cms. (height of table)

Coloured stones arc inlaid into a slab of white Carrara marble in a geometric pattern of scales radiating in increasing sizes from a central micro-mosaic circle. Each scale-shaped piece of stone is outlined in black Belgian marble. The border design is framed in white Carrara marble. The coloured stones include imperial porphyry, granites, serpentines, alabasters, and semi-precious stones as well as marbles. Many are reworked from fragments of ancient Roman architecture (for example, the very distinctive bianco e nero antico, with its jagged pattern of black and white, the Pyrenean quarries of which were only rediscovered in the late nineteenth century), easily available in Rome. Others (most notably the brilliant green malachite from Siberia used for the smallest scales) were imported. The slab is supported by a tripod table veneered in coromandel with dull gilt metal mounts (perhaps not bronze, certainly not fire-gilt).

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1899. F.27 in his catalogues. The table top was probably bought in Rome in 1852 (see below).

Table tops composed of numerous types of polished stone--and especially reusing the stones the ancient Romans had so esteemed--were perhaps first produced in Italy in the late fifteenth century. A splendid one was made for Isabella d'Este in 1499 out of a great variety of stones including serpentine and porphyry, and others the names of which were unknown (C. M. Brown, ' "Lo insaciabile desiderio nostro de cose antique": New Documents for Isabella d'Este's Collection of Antiquities', in C. H. Clough (ed.), Cultural Aspects of the Renaissance: Essays in Honour Of Paul Oskar Kristeller (Manchester, 1976), 349 n. 53). However, I know of no surviving table tops in which a wide variety of stones are displayed in a geometric pattern designed as much for geological instruction as for ornament, which were made before the second half of the eighteenth century. They seem to have been a speciality of Roman craftsmen. One such litoteca with a curvaceous shape and short ormolu paw feet which folds open like a games board was presented in 1763 by Cardinal Riminaldi to his native Ferrara (Il Museo Civico in Ferrara: Donazioni e restauri, ii: Chiesa di San Romano  (Ferrara, 1985), 139-40). A painting by Laurent Pécheux of 1777 shows the Marchesa Boccapaduli in her museum unveiling a monstrance full of butterflies which is supported on an altar, as it were, of marble specimens (reproduced as colour plate XVII in A. González-Palacios, Il tempio del gusto (Roma e il regno delle Due Sicílie), 2 vols. (Milan, 1984) I). The tops were at first rectangular and intended for pier tables in grand apartments. Lalande in the first edition of his Voyage en Italie (Yverdon, 1764, v. 224) mentions such rectangular table tops as a novelty. Francesco (III) of Lorrain, husband of Maria Teresa of Austria, is depicted with such a table in a portrait by Franz Messmer and Ludwig Kohl dated 1773 (eight years after the emperor's death) which is in the Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna, and a very similar table is in the Pitti Palace, Florence (A. Gonzálcz-Palacios, Il tempio del gusto (La Toscana e l'Italia settentionale), 2 vols. (Milan, 1986), i. 144, ii. 299-300). By 1787 when Lalande's second edition appeared (v. 71) they were clearly a well-established fashion. A parallel fashion may be observed in gold boxes including specimens of hardstones which were a speciality of Dresden workshops in the last quarter of the eighteenth century.

An early British reference to table tops of this sort comes in the sale of the stock-in-trade of Thomas Carter in 1777 when a pair of 'inlaid studios of marble' were sold for 20 guineas (Department of Prints and Drawings, British Museum, A-5-9, pp. 54-60). In the same year Henry Blundell bought a specimen table from a marble dealer in the 'Campo Vacino' (sic) and was also presented with one by Pope Pius VI ([H. Blundell], Accound of the #statues, Busts, Bass-Relieves, Cinerary Urns, and Other Ancient Marbles, and Paintings, at Ince, collected by H.B. (Liverpool,1803)). The majority acquired in the late eighteenth century arc likely to have been purchased by gentlemen on the Grand Tour who had throughout the century imported slabs of ancient marble from Rome (as well as pietra dura inlay from Florence) for table tops.

Circular specimen marble table tops appear to have been the nineteenth-century fashion in Britain. Christopher Gilbert (in 'A Specimen Marble Table', Connoisseur (Oct. 1973), 78-81) notes that circular tables with marble, scagliola, mosaic, or marble inlay tops were known as Dejune tables, and were described in George Smith's Designs for Household Furniture of 1808 and in the second edition of his Cabinet-Makers's and Upholsterer's Guide of 1826 as suitable for 'ladies Boudoirs or Morning Breakfast Rooms' and for 'the boudoir or drawing rooms'. The circular form when large, however, may always have been intended for libraries or galleries. Large or small, they are characteristic of the tendency, increasing stcadily in the early nineteenth century, for furniturc to be designed for the centre of a room. It was the circular shape which stimulated more complex patterns in place of the chequerboard. 

Two other table tops of the same size and pattern as that in the Ashmolean Museum have come to my attention. One with a massive rosewood support of about 1850 (combining heavy baroque scrolls with Gothic trefoils and Gothic foliage) was lot 146 at Christie's, London, 7 May 1987. Another, supported by three gilt sphinxes in the Empire style which, if original, would date from the first two decades of the nineteenth century and would probably have been made in France, was illustrated in the Connoisseur for July 1965 (p.153). In all cases the central feature is a 'micro-mosaic' reproduction of the famous ancient mosaic found in Hadrian's Villa, and preserved in the Capitoline Museum since 1765, representing three doves drinking from a brazen vessel in which they are partially reflected. In all cases the first and smallest scales are of malachite. There are variations in the colours--for example the largest Scales arc all outlined in black against porphyry in the Ashmolean table top but against giallo antico in the one at Christie's in 1987. The support of the Ashmolean table top with its lion's paw feet and its lion masks at the braced Centres of its three tense scroll supports is an example of early nineteenth-century British furniture at its most bold. It could have been made as early as 1815 or as late as 1855. 

One Roman workshop known to have made such work is that of Giacomo Raffaelli (1753-1836). The smaller inlaid table top published in 1973 by Christophcr Gilbert (op. cit.)--3 feet in diameter--is of similar character. The inlaid marble is arranged in a radial pattern forming a star with twenty-four outer points, each 'scale', however, being sharper and the black borders being legible as continuous lines. It is similar also in its use of malachite. A plan and description of this table survives which commences with the information that it was purchased on 8 March 1831 'from the very illustrious Signor Erskine in the establishment of Councillor Giacomo Raffaelli Via del Babuino No. 92--near the Albert Theatre in Rome'. Raffaelli was councillor to the Imperial Russian Court for which he did much work (which explains the use of malachite).

 

Fortnum also owned two smaller tables of this type. One, which he bequeathed to E. Maude Thompson (F. 28 in his catalogue), had a top of 'Florentine mosaic' with a spray of flowers in pietra dura. He bought it in 1852 in Florcncc and noted that it was the work of 'Cav. Bianchini' of that city. He had it mounted in London on an elaborate tripod support involving terms of Hercules. Another (F. 29), mounted in a similar manner and regarded as a companion, was of 'Roman mosaic'. It featured a central medallion of 'Cupid in the act of' discharging an arrow from his bow' and was made by 'Cav. Barberi' of Rome. This latter table, also acquired in 

1852' he bequeathed to Lord Halsbury. In his large catalogue Fortnum did not name the maker of the large table top in the Ashmolean, but in his notebook catalogue he cites this also as the work of Barberi. We may conjecture that it too was acquired in 1852 or possibly a little earlier or later, suggesting or suggested by his acquisition of the smaller example.

Michelangelo Barberi was the leading practitioner of the Roman art of micro-mosaic pictures in the mid-nineteenth century. Like Raffaelli hc had many contacts with Russia. Indeed he was a protégé of the Princess Volkonski and helped establish the mosaic school of St Petersburg. Some of his most celebrated works--the Trionfo d'Amore of 1826, the Twenty Four Hours of Rome of 1839--are in the Hermitage. One might suppose that he only made the central circle of the table top, but there is evidence that mosaicists also supplied the larger marble inlay; indeed Giacomo Raffaelli was also chiefly known for his micro-mosaic although one could (as we have seen) buy table tops from him without any mosaic element. Fortnum could have known of Barberi's work without travelling to Rome for it was awarded a medal at the Great Exhibition in 1851. In 1856, when appointed Commendatore del Pontificio Ordine di S. Silvestro, Barberi published engravings of 'Alcuni Musaici usciti dallo Studio del Cav. Michel 'Angelo Barberi'. (M. Alfieri, M. G. Branchetti, D. Petochi, I mosaici minuti romani. (Rome, 1981), 46, 125-30). Two important round micromosaic tabletops, with views of major Italian cities in one case and of the flora and classical ruins of southern Italy in the other, are in the collection of Mr and Mrs Arthur Gilbert and on loan to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art (M.77.L81 and L.88.22.3). The supports are of gilt bronze but otherwise similar to that of the Ashmolean table.

Of all the designs reproduced in Roman Micro-mosaic between 1770 and 1870 none exceeded in popularity Pliny's Doves (see Alfieri, Branchetti, and Petochi, op. cit., figs. 13 and 29 and the ten plates on 226-7). 

@@11

Perhaps studio of Lorenzo BARTOLINI (1777-1850) 

11. Mask of Dante Alighieri 

22 cms. (approximate height of mask); 57.5 cms. (height of shadow box; 44.8 cms. (width of shadow box)

 

Plaster of Paris. Cast from a piece-mould, with all the seams preserved--hollow behind. The mask is mounted on a board covered with burgundy-coloured velvet framed as an irregular oval within a rectangular oak frame. The oval aperture is surrounded with a carved frieze of laurel leaves with a line of water gilding to either side; the laurel berries are also gilded. The oak frame is set within an oak shadow box.

Transferred at an unrecorded date from the Bodleian Librarv where it was recorded in the Gallery by Mrs R. Lane Poole in an appendix to her catalogue of Portraits in the Possession of the University, Colleges, City and County Of Oxford, iii (Oxford, 1925), 308, as follows: 'Cast of Bertolini's [sic] mask believed to have been taken from the mask originally placed on the Poet's Tomb at Ravenna. Presented to the Oxford Dante Society by Baron Kirkup in 1879. Deposited on loan by the Oxford Dante Society in 1916.'

Dante's admirers were not idle in Oxford in the 1910s. Dr Paget Toynbee presented the Bodleian Gallery with a collection of 'all the portralts' of the poet in 1917 and in 1919 the Hon. William Vernon added a plaster cast of Munro's bust of the poet (the marble, which belonged to Henry Acland, had been exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1856 as no.1304). The quality of the Ashmolean's cast is lamentable and it may have been made by an amateur, the taking of 'squeezes' during the mid-ninetccnth century often being undertaken by gentlemen travellers. The source would seem to have been the terracotta bust in Palazzo del Nero in Florence which was much venerated in the last century because it was believed to have been made from a cast taken after the poet's death in Ravenna in 1321. There is a similar plaster mask, including, however, less of the cap and with less evident seams, in Palazzo Vecchio, Florence, the gift of the literary critic Senatore Alessandro d'Ancona. This had previously belonged to Seymour Kirkup (1788-1880), who is recorded as having given the Ashmolean's cast to the Oxford Dante Society shortly before his death. Kirkup was a British painter resident in Florence whose chief claim to fame was his discovery of a presumed portrait of Dante on a wall of the Bargello in the early 1840s. There is no record in M. Tinti's monograph Lorenzo Barolini (2 vols. (Rome,1936)) of the sculptor making a portrait of Dante but it is unlikely that the reference to him is without significance and it is possible that his studio supplied casts of this and other famous Florentine works of all and memorabilia. Bartolini was certainly a strong adherent of the view that the Florentine masks were death masks (which is exceedingly improbable)--see C. Ricci, L'ultimo rifugio di Dante (Florence, 1891), 279-80. An alternative explanation would be that the cast was in fact furnished by Bartolini's rival Stefano Ricci (1765-1837), who was responsible for the poet's cenotaph in S. Croce, Florence (commissioned in 1829), in which the effigy was based closely on the Palazzo del Nero mask.

@@12

Unknown foundry, unknown modeller

After Gianlorenzo BERNINI (1598-1680)

12. Constantine the Great beholding the sign of the Cross, before the Battle of the Milvian Bridge

81 cms. (height); 98 cms. (length); 80.2 cms. (height of pedestal); 92 cms. (length of pedestal)

Bronze with a dark brown to black patina worn to a chestnut brown n some salient areas (e.g. horse's forelegs, ridges of drapery). Hollow, lost-wax, cast in numerous pieces. Both the back legs and the tail of the horse were separately cast and fixed with difficulties: rivets are apparent and there are cracks in the tail near the join. The front legs were separately cast, but fixed with no visible joins. Constantine's body is cast in two parts--the upper part including both of his arms. The join is apparent on close inspection of the cloak. The fit of the lower part of his body on the horse is ingenious, especially where his cloak fits tightly over the saddle cloth below. Three of the four tassels on the saddle cloth on each side of the horse were separately cast and one is missing from both sides (the tassels nearest the horse's neck are integral with the cloth). The strap across the horse's chest is also attached. The horse's head is cast separately and the join in the upper part of the horse's neck is most evident on the emperor's left side but there is a crack along a part of the join on the other side of the neck. The wall of bronze is very thin in the highest portions of the horse as also in the tail with minute perforations in these parts. A small patch of the mane appears to have been separately inserted. The group is mounted on a pedestal of pale mahogany (modelled on that designed by Michelangelo for the Marcus Aurelius on the Capitol) by means of solid extensions of the back legs.

Purchased 1952 through the agency of Mary Bellis of Charnham Close, Hungerford, from the collection of the American newspaper tycoon William Randolph Hearst. Purchased for Hearst at the sale of Leopold Hirsh deceased of 10 Kensington Palace Gardens, London Christi's, London 8 May 1934 (lot 151). The present pedestal seejms to have been made for Hirsch. Previousl in the collection of T.M. Whitehead and in his sale, christi's, London 10th May 1898 (lot 104), at which date it had an ebonized pedestal the top of which was the same shape as the present one. Said in his sale to have been brought from Rome in 1855 by T.W. Faulkner, Esq., of Lime Bank, Cheetham Hill, near Manchester. Mary Bellis was a dealer in antique furniture who had for a breif while a special arrangement to sell works of art from Hearst's home in Wales, St Donat's Castle. See also Nos. 130 and 416.

 

Bernini's collossal marble statue, upon which this bronze is modelled, is placed, as if in high relief, against the wall of the principal landing of the Scala Regia in the Vatican Palace. it had bfirst been conceived of in the autumn of 1654 in response to an idea of Pope Innocent X to fill a niche in the Basilica of St Peter's and had been blocked out by 1655 when Alexander VII became pope and plans were changed. The present location was decided upon in 1662 and the statue finished in the summer of 1668, transported by January 1669, and unveiled, against a background of agitated stucco drapery, on 1 November 1670. (R. Wittkowcr, Bernini (Oxford, 1981), 251-4.)

The Ashmolean's bronze is a work of hich quality suggestive of a diplomatic gift. It is also the only recorded version in bronze of this masterpiece by Bernini. It is not a copy. The horse rears rather less high than in Bernini's marble and the emperor's right arm is lower (so that his gesture is closer to that devised by Raphael for the mural of the sane subject in the Sala di Costantino of the Vatican). Some of the differences--the trappings on the horse and the antique armour here worn by Constantine--may be explained as appropriate for a less monumental setting, a more ornamental purpose, and perhaps a scholarly patron. Other differences may be explalned by the different medium: the tail in the marble version is attached to the rump and legs, whereas in the bronze it flows free; likewise the cloak in the bronze, where blown back over the flank of the horse, does not adhere as closely to it as in the marble version. None of the differences observed so far precludes the possibility that this is a work made from a modello by Bernini himself. In one or two respects (above all the cuirass) the bronze does correspond with a damaged terracotta bozzetto by Bernini in the Hermitage (G. Matzulevitsch, 'Tre bozzetti di G. L. Bernini', Bolletino. d'arte (1963), 71-2, fig. 3).

It is, however, far more likely that the bronze is the work of a later sculptor. Wittkower (op. cit. 254) suggested the Florentine Giovanni Battista Foggini, who studied in Rome, between 1673 and 1676, under Ercole Ferrata--'the sculptor may have used a Bernini bozzetto as a starting point for his version'. The suggestion is attractive both because Foggini was much involved in equestrian groups in bronze (indeed his Kaiser Joseph I in the Bayerisches Nationalmuseum, Munich, and his Carlos II in the Prado, Madrid, both have rearing mounts) and because the complex piecing of the bronze is typical of Florentine foundries of the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries. They were, however, more ingenious in concealing joins. Other sculptors working in Rome (including pensioners of the French Academy) could have been responsible.

The bronze may be considered as a correction of, as well as homage to, the marble, for it avoids the controversial mannerisms of Bernini's late style. The cloak is less abstract in its agitation, more like cloth in its weight, and the horse's mane is less extravagant. The alteration of the emperor's attitude may reflect apprehension concerning the decorum of Bernini's interpretation which is expressed in a polemical pamphlet on the sculptor which deplored the way in which Constantine resembled St Francis receiving the Stigmata (G. Previtah, 'Il Costantino messo alla Berlina o Bernina . . .', Paragone, 13 (1962), 55-8, no.145).

@@13

Workshop of BONGIOVANNI-VACCARO

 

13. Young country woman with an infant in conversation with an older country man

23 cMs. (heIght); 21.8 cms. (length); 12.9 cms. (width)

 

Terracotta, partially hollow. Minor firlng cracks; many subsequent breaks. The whole of the man's left arm, the index finger of the woman's left hand, and the end of her thumb, also the child's left foot are missing. His bundle is broken at one end (a relatively recent loss. The base is cracked across the front and repalred in the interior with cement, small patches of which are smeared on the front. Inscribed '1978.334' in red letters in the interior.

Given by G R. Reitllnger in 1972. The gift, exceptionally, remained in Reitlinger's possession. Much was lost in the fire of 6 February 1978 at his home. What was salvaged was removed to the Museum. The donor died on 8 March 1978. The number corresponds to a card index of some 225 Western ceramic items transferred from the Department of Eastern Art. These were never registered. The cardfor this piece includes Reitlinger's number E. 336 and a note that 

it was bought at Phillips and Harris on 3 February 1970.

Reitlinger identified this group as modelled by 'Bongiovanni Vaccaro' about 1840-60. Salvatore and Giacomo Bongiovanni (born 1769 and 1772 respectively) had estabhshed a workshop for the making of small terracotta figurines for cribs and the like at Caltagirone in Sicily by the end of the eighteenth century. Their sister's son, Giuseppe Vaccaro, continued with, and further improved upon, their work, and other members of the family were also employed. Their most ambitious cribs included numerous rural types in local dress, as had long been traditional in southern Italy. Many of these were occupied in a manner quite unrelated to the sacred narrative and these groups--the shepherds making ricotta, the women washing linen in a stream, the old women winding wool, and so on--could presumably also be purchased independently by tourists. The finest compendium of their models is to be found in the crib in the Real Collegiata di S. Maria de Betlem in Modica (Sicily) unveiled on Christmas Eve 1882 (C. Naselli, 'Presepi di Sicilia', Emporium, 74 (1931), 332-7). Scholars who have seen this and the independent figures in Sicilian museum have confirmed the attribution of this piece to the Bongiovanni-Vaccaro workshop, whose productions seem however to have usually been coloured. The style, and extremely skilful management of petals of clay for the ragged clothes, are very closely matched in a piece representing a pedlar or beggar which is stamped 'BONGIOVANNI VACCARO' with raised letters on its base (reproduced Emporium, 34 (1911), 310), and may also be compared with a group of cobblers and a figure of a 'contadino di Bronte' in the collection of crib figures in the Bayerischcrs Nationalmuseum, Munich (vitrine no. 120). Work of this kind was still being made in Caltagirone in this century, by when, however, the standards of modelling had declined. The subjects still continue to be popular, and not only in Sicily--the 'Eleganza Collection of Seattle', which sells reproductions of Renalssance and classical masterpieces in oxolyte, also supplies the Italian-American market with the Contadino con cesti de frutta' che Giustapiatti, Pizzamakers, and other street vendors in this tradition.

@@14

Workshop of BONGIOVINNI-VACCARO

14. Pedlar or vagrant in traditional Sicilian dress

l8.6 cms. (height); 6 cms. (widest diameter of irregular oval base); 1.6 cms; (height of same) 

Terracotta, partially hollow. Minute chips and firing cracks.

Given by R. E. Alton of St Edmund Hall. Registered 23 March 1962.

The piece is unmarked but has long been stored with No. 13, to which it is very closely related in style and technique. On registration it was described as Neapolitan but later attributed to the French sculptor Leopold Harzé of Liège (1851-93).

 

@@15

Giuseppe BOSCHI (active 1790s) 

15. Portrait bust of Cicero

22.2 cms. (height of bust); 10 cms. (width across truncation of chest); 6.9 cms. (height of socle); 9.8 cms. (diameter of socle)

Bronze with a dark green-brown patina, worn to chestnut on a few salient points (e.g. tip of nose and lips). Hollow, lost-wax, cast. Mounted on a turned and waisted socle of bronze, fire-gilt, with a label chiselled 'M. T. CICERO'. An integrally cast bronze tang projecting from the inside of the chest serves as an attachment. The bust is incised, apparently in the model, along the edge behind the neck: 'G. BOSCHI F. ROMAE. 1793'. Painted in the hollow interior of the bust to proper left in white 'B/407./[EF].' The socle has been filled with plaster of Paris to give it weight.

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1899. B. 407 in his catalogues. Bought in Rome for £2 in 1870. 

Boschi is described by Charles Heathcote Tatham in a letter of 10 July 1795 to his patron the architect Henry Holland as an 'obscure' artist but one who was recommended by 'Madame Angelica [Kauffmann], Zucchi her husband, Canova, Visconti and Bonomi' (Tatham papers, Victoria and Albert Museum). Tatham, who was supplying Holland with ideas and items for furnishing his interiors, noted that Boschi was much cheaper for work in bronze and ormolu than were the better-known Righetti (see Nos. 79-81) and Valadier whose workshops were evidently extensive. But this, Tatham continued, was explained by the fact that Boschi was 'himself the artist, and not a principal' (i.e. an entrepreneur). We know of few other works signed by Boschi and little has been attributed to him. A small bronze version of Canova's Hebe signed by him was lot 193 at Christie's, London, 11 December 1979, one of the lion on Canova's tomb of Pope Clement XIII was lot 131 at Sotheby's, London 12 April 1990, and one of the Marcus Aurelius was lot 146 at Sotheby's, London, 4 July 1984. A pair of busts of Achilles and Ajax, both after the antique were lot 89 at Christie's, London, 10 December 1991 (the bold signatures, ‘G. BOSCHI F.', not noted in the catalogue). Gordon Balderston has drawn to my attention a small bronze group of a centurion in a two-horsed chariot signed by him (in a private collection). D. Udy, in his catalogue of his stand at the Grosvenor House Antique Dealers Fair, 1966, and Christie's (with Young and Gilling), Hawling Manor, Gloucestershire, 10 October 1988, lot 7, draw attention to small ormolu versions of the Farnese candelabra now in Naples perhaps commissioned by Tatham. A pair of portrait busts of the older and younger Brutus with a finish and technique like the Cicero, of the same size and mounted upon the same type of socle, are displayed as 'French?' and of about 1800 in the Städtische Galerie Liebieghaus, Frankfurt on Main. 

There were three ancient busts believed (possibly correctly, it is conceded today) to be portraits of Cicero which Boschi might have taken as his model. The most famous of these was the one later acquired by the duke of Wellington from Cardinal Fesch which had been in the Mattei Collection since the sixteenth century (A. Michaelis, Ancient Marbles in Great 

Britain (Cambridge, 1882), 429-30). This shows the philosopher with a bare chest and a marble tablet beneath the chest bearing the name Cicero in lettering which although ancient is thought to be less so than the bust. There are, however, small differences: in the parting of the lips, the curls of hair beside the car, and, more importantly, the corrugations of the brow. There is a closer resemblance to the head in the Capitoline Museum (Sala dei Filosofi, no. 75) which had been in the Barberini Collection-a portrait believed by Visconti to be of Maecenas (Iconografia romana, i (Milan edition of his Works, 1818-37), 171, pl. 12), and a still closer resemblance to the head in the Uffizi probably acquired from the Ludovisi Collection by Grand Duke Ferdinand II de' Medici in 1669 (G. Mansuelli, Galleria degli Uffizi: Le sculture, 2 vols. (Rome, 1958-61), ii. 44-5, no. 33), which is set in lavish onyx drapery. It seems likely that Boschi had access to a cast of the latter. 

@@16

Perhaps by Giuseppe BOSCHI (active 1790s) 

16. Bust of Juno 

24 cms. (height); 16.8 cms. (length, across shoulders) 

Bronze with a mixed olive green to chestnut patina. Hollow, lost- wax, cast. 'B./406./.' Painted in white in the hollow interior to proper right. 

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1899. B. 406 in his catalogues. No indication of provenance but presumably acquired after 1857 when the preliminary catalogue, in which this is not included, was compiled. Mounted, when in Fortnum's possession, on a 'giallo base' (no doubt a socle of giallo antico). 

The attribution of this bronze to Righetti was made by Fortnum presumably because of its similarity in technique, character, and colour to those busts of Bacchus and Ariadne in his collection which are chiselled with Righetti's name (Nos. 80 and 81). In the large catalogue he claims that the bust is after an antique marble in the Vatican but I cannot find a similar statue there. The prototype may be in this country, for in Righetti's printed list of bronzes dated 1794 under 'Bustes avec leur base dorée, en tout, hauts d'un palme, cinq onces' we find 'La fameuse Junon colossale en Angleterre' companion with 'Le Jupiter du Museum Vatican'. The measurement of this bronze Juno, which would only have been approximate, was the same as that for the Bacchus and Ariadne, although at 15 'Sequins Romains' (nearly £7 10s.) it was more expensive. The size of the Ashmolean Juno is close to that of the Bacchus and Ariadne. It is however impossible to feel sure that the bust is not the product of one of the rival foundries of the period. It is different in the cutting of the chest and the modelling has less vitality especially when compared with the Ariadne. An attribution to Boschi is advanced on the grounds that two other versions of the bust are found as companions to versions of the Cicero, which is (in the Ashmolean's example, No. 15) signed by Boschi. In both cases, one in a private collection in London and one with a French dealer from whom they were stolen in late July 1989 (see the Gazette de l'Hôtel Drouot (Sept. 1989), 56), the socles were of gilt bronze of the same type as the Ashmolean's Cicero.

@@17 

Perhaps by Cesare BRAZZINI (active 1870s) 

17. Bust of a boy of the Medici family 

46.2 cms. (height) 

Terracotta of a pinky grey colour, dirty. There is a network of cracks and breaks over the chest, with some plaster infill tinted to match the clay. Much plaster has been poured into the hollow interior of the bust to reinforce it. There is a small hole in the top of the head. Slip-cast and retaining many minute seams from the piece-mould: e.g. across his right eyebrow, across front of fringe. 

Given by Thomas Harris of Garden Lodge, Logan Place, London W8. Registered 25 October 1947. 

The Register records that the donor believed that the bust was cast from an eighteenth-century mould of an earlier original. Another version of the bust is in the Victoria and Albert Museum (no. 231-1876). There is no surviving documentation for the latter save that it was acquired in 1876 as a bust of 'Il Moro' from a Cesare Brazzini in Florence. If this is the name of a sculptor he is not otherwise recorded, and it may rather be the name of a dealer. The Medici family palle on the breastplate and the coronet above would suggest that a Medici duke was intended, and, given the youth of the sitter and his scowl, there can be little doubt that he is meant for the first Medici duke of Florence, Alessandro de' Medici, natural son of Lorenzo, duke of Urbino. Alessandro was made ruler of Florence in 1530 by the imperial army at the age of 20 and died, murdered by his kinsman, after seven years' rule, the horror of which thrilled the city's late Victorian historians: "The exaltation of this foul and evil youth to a position of power absolutely uncontrolled showed mankind an example of what human nature is capable of under such conditions', wrote Colonel Young (The Medici (New York, 1910), 365), and he proceeded to quote Adolphus Trollope on the 'low forehead and mean expression' of this boy whose life was one 'continual orgy'. The bust mixes elements suggestive of fifteenth-century sources the pudding-basin hair style, the ornamental breastplate, and the proud look derive chiefly perhaps from Pollaiuolo's terracotta bust of an unknown youth, no. 166 in the Museo Nazionale of the Bargello, Florence with others contemporary with the sitter-the mask ornament on the front face of the base is inspired by that on the armour of Michelangelo's Giuliano de' Medici- see no. 62). At the same time the boy seems unmistakably to be a contemporary of the fisherboys and urchins of Vincenzo Gemito. 

The Victoria and Albert Museum version is exhibited among their fakes but it is not certain that the portrait was intended as such rather than as an imaginary portrait. It is covered, like the Ashmolean version, with piece-mould seams but seems to have been fired in two parts, the back of the head, neck, and shoulders forming a 'lid' cemented on to the 

rest.

@@18&19

Probably by Elias de Witte, called Elia CANDIDO (active 1570s in Florence) 

18 and 19. Pair of putti in twisted attitudes 

19.5 cms. (length of figure (18) with arm behind his head); 22.1 cms. (length of figure (19)) 

Bronze with a black varnish (leaving a dark green deposit when handled), worn, on salient points such as curls, nose, knees, toes, and buttocks, to expose a natural warm coppery brown patina. The surface has been punched and the varnish is better preserved in the small dents, giving a spotty appearance, particularly evident in the figure with one hand behind his head (No. 18). Extremely heavy, apparently solid, casts. The thickness of the bronze is evident from the depth of the large screw holes (perhaps for suspension) of which there is one in the back and one between the legs of No. 18 and one in the back and one in the back of the proper right thigh of No. 19. These holes are over 1 cm. in depth and do not enter into a hollow core. The proper left hand of No. 19 has been cast separately and the join at the wrist is easily perceived and is slightly loose. There is a small firing crack on the proper right foot and above the proper left knee of No. 19. 

Given by E. Barry Bowyer of Mulberry House, Peppard, Henley on Thames, through R. M. Courtier of 70 Peppard Road, Caversham, Reading, Berkshire, in March 1984 (deposited early in March, formerly offered and accepted on 15 March). Mr Bowyer died in April, soon after making this gift. Mr Courtier, in a letter to the Keeper of 6 November 1986, explained that Mr Bowyer was a 'bachelor, retired some years as senior partner of the firm Buckland and Sons, Auctioneers and Surveyors of Slough, Windsor and Reading', who had 'spent a long life time collecting pictures & objects d'art, some from his sales but many from second-hand "junk shops". If all were not in perfect condition everything had an intrinsic beauty, or antique value; only in his later years did he spend real money! The putti referred to were bought in a very shabby second hand shop in Oxford Rd., Reading in about 1970.' This last date, however, is inaccurate since Mr Bowyer had been in correspondence with the Department of Architecture and Sculpture at the Victoria and Albert Museum concerning the putti in February and March 1956. The department had expressed a tentative interest in purchasing them but only for a 'modest sum' and Mr Bowyer decided not to sell to them. 

It is hard to imagine the larger work of art from which these putti must have been removed. Although of identical style and technique they do not certainly form a pair, No. 18 being smaller, most obviously in the head, than No. 19. They may be from a larger group in which such differences mattered less or were intended. Paired putti of about this size, leaning backwards and with one knee raised, sometimes adorn the scrolled feet of sixteenth- and seventeenth-century Venetian andirons (see for instance those in the Nelson-Atkins Museum, Kansas City, 62-19/1.2). The positions of the arms and the fragments in the hands, however, make such an origin unlikely. No. 18 has a piece of drapery in the hands behind his head and a stem in the other. No. 19 holds thin, striated pieces of foliage or possibly hair in both of his hands. This perhaps suggests that the figures originally held up swags or held back drapery upon the cornice or upper portion of a tabernacle. They bear some resemblance in character to the larger bronze putti supporting the epitaph below the half- length portrait of Lucrezia Tomacelli (duchess of Palliana, wife of Filippo Colonna) on her tomb in the Colonna Chapel in S. Giovanni in Laterano, Rome, a work dated 1625 and made by Teodoro della Porta (legitimate son and heir of Guglielmo della Porta) in collaboration with the founder Giacomo Laurenziani (illustrated and discussed by U. Middeldorf, Raccolta di scritti (Florence, 1981), iii. 97-8, fig. 93). 

The putti were registered as German and of the seventeenth or eighteenth century, following the opinion of them expressed in a letter to the donor from the Victoria and Albert Museum in 1956, but the closest parallel is certainly with bronzes which were made in Italy, and in particular with a pair of dancing putti upon small domed bases, of similar size. One of these, with his left foot raised before him, is in the Victoria and Albert Museum (A. 109-1910) and the other, with his left foot behind him, is in the Museo Nazionale of the Bargello, Florence (inv. 64). They have similarly active and twisted poses, identical wild pointed curls, their extremities also appear to have been clipped off to form sharp points, and the flesh has been given the same distinctive finish with a broad punch. They even have similar fragments in the hands-probably bits of stem and leaf. (The Victoria and Albert Museum has a variant of the Bargello Bronze (A. 78- 1951) and other versions are known, for which see the catalogue of the exhibition Giambologna: Ein Wendepunkt der europäischen Plastik (Vienna, 1978), nos. 255–6, which, however, does not mention the version of the Bargello's putti in the Thiers Collection (no. 131) in the Louvre.) These dancing figures have been attributed to Elia Candido, Elias de Witte of Bruges, because of their resemblance to the larger bronze Aeolus in the Studiolo of the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence which is inscribed with this mysterious sculptor's name and dated 1573. Anthony Radcliffe (in the Vienna catalogue cited above) did not find the similarities sufficiently strong to justify the attribution. But the precarious and spiralling pose is extreme in both and the treatment of the hair is very idiosyncratic and exactly comparable. Moreover there is another bronze which shares much with both the dancing putti and the adolescent wind god. This is the graceful Meleager (Staatliche Museen, Berlin-Dahlem, inv. 2594), similar in size to the former (but even smaller) and similar in subject to the latter, who is as delicately balanced (with one foot on a boar's head) and has exactly the same pointed hair and dimpled flesh as the putti (see the persuasive entry by Volker Krahn in Maecenas und Berlin (Ausstellung des Kaiser-Friedrich-Museums-Vereins, 1988), 16-17, attributing this to Candido). 

@@20

Pupil of Antonio CANOVA (mid-nineteenth century) 

20. Melpomene 

41.2 cms. (height excluding socle); 13 cms. (height of socle) 

Carrara marble. The turned and waisted socle is of a different piece of marble with the chiselled word 'MELPOMENE' on the front of the tablet above the upper moulding. Inscribed on the back of this tablet in black ink 'S 36 [EF]'. A few minor chips are missing from the vine leaves in the hair. 

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1899. S. 36 in his catalogues. Acquired with Thalia (No. 3).

 

The Melpomene is companion to Thalia (No. 3), this couple forming a pair for the two copies of antique heads by Gott (Nos. 514, 515). Fortnum noted that it was a 'copy from the head of the antique statue in the Vatican... the work of a student pupil in Canova's studio' but in his preliminary catalogue of 1857 (p. 7) he phrased this rather differently: 'Said to be by one of Canova's pupils and from his studio.' One might suppose that this was supplied by Amici together with the Thalia (No. 3), but if so it is surprising that the socles are of slightly different dimensions and character (and that Thalia does not have her name on the tablet). It may also be that this particular bust was cut down from a failed copy of the entire statue because it is crudely chiselled and hardly at all hollowed out behind and is even rough under the cut of the chest. Like the Thalia the Melpomene is, in execution, an improvement upon the antique prototype, the vine leaves and grape clusters of the Bacchic crown being more sharply defined and deeply undercut and far more completely carved from behind. This prototype is a standing figure with her left leg raised on a block holding a mask in her right hand in the Sala delle Muse in the Museo Pio- Clementino. It was discovered together wth the Thalia and other Muses at the supposed Villa di Cassio at Tivoli in excavations commenced before 1773 by Domenico de Angelis and was obtained for the papal museum by the intervention of Giovanni-Battista Visconti in 1774 (W. Amelung and G. Lippold, Die Skulpturen des Vaticanischen Museums, III, (Berlin, 1935-6), no. 499; C. Pietrangeli, Scavi e scoperte di antichità sotto il pontificato di Pio VI (Rome, 1958), 139-40).

@@21

Perhaps by Benvenuto CELLINI (1500–71) 21. 

Reclining female nude 

8.55 cms. (height); 10.8 cms. (length); 3.7 cms. (height of porphyry slab); 12.3 cms. (length of porphyry slab); 5.4 cms. (width of porphyry slab); 1.5 cms. (height of wooden plinth); 13.5 cms. (length of wooden plinth); 8.7 cms. (width of wooden plinth) 

Bronze with a green and dark brown varnish, flaked and rubbed to expose, in many areas, a yellow metal. The nipples are both of silver, and so is the figure's left eye. The silver has fallen out of her right eye. The figure's right arm, where it is broken, is solid. Her right leg appears solid but has been filled with wax to give this impression. appears The thin wall of the bronze above the break has been twisted and bent. There is a firing crack in the upper part of the figure's left arm. The bronze has been tooled and the cloth which is part of the coiffure has been minutely punched. The figure is mounted by means of a coarse bolt to a slab of imperial porphyry which rests in a plinth of ebonized wood. The slab may originally have served as a plinth for another bronze in the Chamber Hall gift (see No. 223). 

Given by Chambers Hall in 1855 (for this gift see the Preliminary Essay to volume iii). Probably placed on display in 1856: blocks for mounting the bronzes were paid for in January of that year.

This fragment of an exquisite bronze figure, known only in this cast, was formerly labelled as possibly by Guglielmo della Porta, because the reclining pose was thought to be similar to those of the personifications on the tomb of Pope Paul III by that sculptor in St Peter's. This attribution was probably proposed, and certainly approved, by C. F. Bell. It was, however, Bode's opinion that the figure, which he erroneously captioned as in the Pierpont Morgan Collection, might be by Benvenuto Cellini (Italian Bronze Statuettes of the Renaissance (London, 1907-12), ii, pl. CXLVI). Planiscig agreed, although correspondence with Bell makes it clear that he knew the bronze only from photographs (Piccoli bronzi italiani del Rinascimento (Milan, 1930), 45). Pope-Hennessy also considered it as possibly by Cellini (The Life of Benvenuto Cellini Written by Himself (London, 1949), 484) and has recently reaffirmed this position: 

"One small bronze of a reclining female nude, which exists only in a single version at Oxford may also have been produced by Cellini at this time [1546]. It has no provenance (no provenance of consequence, that is), but the exquisite modelling of the figure is so closely related to the Earth on the Vienna saltcellar as to permit a tentative attribution to Cellini." (Cellini (London, 1985), 226) 

The somewhat elongated proportions; the pose, intermediary between reclining and sitting, which is certainly reminiscent of the see-saw attitudes of Ops and Neptune on the salt-cellar; the elaborately dressed hair which nevertheless retains  the freedom, body, and softness; also the exquisite silver additions characteristic of goldsmith's work; all tend to support connection with Cellini. Two factors, however, weigh against the attribution. Firstly, Cellini's surviving bronzes, large and small, are all of a highly coppery metal with a warm brown natural patina, whereas this is the colour of brass. Secondly, the woman's face with its pointed dimpled chin and its arched brows rising from a fine nose is dissimilar to the female type which is found in Cellini's work which is particularly distinguished by square brows. It may be significant that before the compilation of this catalogue no photographs of the bronze gave a frontal view of the face. Draper, in his 1980 edition of Bode's Italian Bronze Statuettes of the Renaissance, suggested that the bronze was Roman and of about 1570-80.

It is not only the identity of the creator of this bronze which is mysterious. Its original purpose and setting are also hard to imagine. It perhaps served as an ornament on an elaborate inkstand. It is impossible to believe that a sculpture would have been so highly finished in a fragmentary form so the damage must have occurred subsequently. It is possible to imagine a firing crack in the arm, especially if it were solid, causing it to break in half when dropped, and it is easy to imagine that the leg, being so thin, could be broken. It is odd, however, to find a cast with such an extreme variation in thickness.

@@22

@@23

@@24

@@25

Giuseppe (Joseph) CLAUS (active between 1754 and 1783)

22, 23, 24, and 25. Popes Innocent XIII, Benedict XIII, Clement XII, and Benedict XIV

 

74.5 cms., 72.8 cms., 73.2 cms., 72 cms. (heights of busts, excluding socles); 19.5 cms. (height of each socle) 

White Carrara marble mounted on mottled dove grey marble socles. The knotted cords attaching the stole have, in each bust, save that of Innocent XIII (22), been broken and the parts are missing. There are small chips missing from the lowest portions of the stoles in the busts of Popes Benedict XIII and Clement XII (23 and 24) and on the fur fringe of the mozzetta (short, hooded, buttoned cape) of Pope Benedict XIV (25) to proper left. The busts are all chiselled with cursive letters of the 'rims' of marble above the hollowed backs as follows: 'joseph Claus fecit anno 1754' (on that of Benedict XIV); 'Claus jnven. et fecit anno 1755' (on that of Innocent XIII); 'joseph Claus jnven. et fecit anno 1755' (on those of Clement XII and popes Clement XIII). The socles are adorned with the names of the and of the artist in gold letters (applied since acquisition by the Museum). It cannot be certain that the socles are original. For the pedestals upon which they are placed see Nos: 219-22. 

Bought at Christie's, London, 22 June 1950, lot 67, 'the property of Frances, Lady Ashburton'. Acquired by Alexander Hugh Baring, 4th Baron Ashburton, between 1860 and 1889 (probably nearer the latter date). 

Tantalizingly little is known of Claus. In addition to these busts, there is a reduced marble copy of the Apollino of the Tribuna signed 'Josephus Claus fecit 1766' at Brocklesby Park, Lincolnshire, a bust signed by him at Maddesfield Court (note in the Department's files), a bust of a man at the Rhode Island School of Design, Providence, and a bust of Clement Augustus, archbishop elector of Cologne (1700-61), signed 'Joseph Claus invt. et fect. 1754', in the Lady Lever Art Gallery, Port Sunlight (E. Morris and M. Evans, Lady Lever Art Gallery, Port Sunlight: Catalogue of Foreign Paintings, Drawings, Miniatures, Tapestries, Post-Classical Sculpture and Prints (Liverpool, 1983), 109, no. LL202, X4202). Gerald Taylor has observed ('Uno scultore ignoto Joseph Claus', Bollettino d'arte, 3 (July-Sept. 1952), 231-3) that Claus is not mentioned in the records of the Academy of St Luke. This might suggest that he stayed for only a relatively short period in Rome-at least a brief visit is suggested by the portrait busts of the popes, and by the style of his work. His name suggests that he came from Germany and the portrait of the archbishop elector, a lover of Italian art, might suggest a patron by whom he was sent to Rome. However, as Hugh Honour pointed out in a letter to Hugh Macandrew of 27 July 1969, it was from a Giuseppe Claus that Canova took over a largish studio in Vicolo delle Colonette di S. Giacomo degli Incurabili in 1783 in order to carve the monument to Pope Clement XIV. If this is the same Claus one wonders how he was employed in Rome between 1766 and 1783. 

The popes depicted are Innocent XIII (Conti) who died 1724, Benedict XIII (Orsini) who died 1730, Clement XII 

(Corsini) who died 1740, and Benedict XIV (Lambertini) who died 1758. The last named pope was therefore alive when the bust of him was carved whereas the others were posthumous, and this might explain (as Taylor pointed out, op. cit.) the different styles of signature, 'invenit' being absent from the portrait of the living pope because invention was less important when a work was executed from the life. On the other hand the sculptor might have wished to underline the imaginative contribution he made in those cases when he was inevitably dependent upon the models of earlier artists. He certainly was dependent upon the bronze bust of Clement XII by Pietro Bracci in the Museo Capitolino of 1736 for his portrait of that pontiff (as Taylor noted). However physiognomical truth seems to have been modified in the interest of decorative symmetry. Claus's Benedict XIV resembles Innocent XIII and Benedict XIII resembles Clement XII. All four have a very similar undulating termination to the mozzetta which in every case is imperfectly buttoned and each pope has a similarly curling collar in every case supported by marble bridges, but on closer examination they are paired in attire as well as facial type: Benedict XIV and Innocent XIII have polished marble (for satin?) mozzettas and caps 

whereas the busts of Benedict XIII and Clement XII have mozzettas and caps with rougher punched textures (for velvet ?); the former pair have stoles with a punched ground whereas the latter pair wear stoles with a striated ground. 

Strikingly similar to these busts, not only in formal, costume, and size but in execution, is that of Clement XIV now in the Vestibolo Quadrato (formerly Stanza della Cleopatra) in the Vatican Museums, which was acquired earlier in this century from the Galleria Sangiorgi (with an attribution to Canova which now seems absurd). 

In addition, the bust of Benedict XIV in the Castello Sforzesco in Milan (no. 1314) is a truncated version of that in the Ashmolean and so perhaps a product of Claus's studio. 

@@26

Imitator of DESIDERIO DA SETTIGNANO (b. c.1430, d. 1464)

26. Virgin and Child 

63.5 cms. (height); 39.5 cms. (width) 

White marble, presumably from Carrara, with some ingrained dirt in the finer hollows. Framed in a wood frame partially black and partially gilded. 

Given by C. D. E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888. S. 7 in his catalogues. Bought in 1864 from the executors of 'the late Sig. Lombardi' [Francesco Lombardi] for £20 (according to the notebook catalogue). As mentioned in the introduction Fortnum also bought Italian paintings from Lombardi's collection. 

Fortnum considered that 'the delicate and tender expression and fine execution of this marble are much in the manner of Desiderio'. In the notebook catalogue it is clear that the 'much' replaced a 'quite' and that the prudent qualification that it 'may be by some equally able pupil of Donatello's school' was an afterthought. He was aware of another version of the relief in the Galleria Reale, Turin, which he described, rashly, as a copy or 'replica'. The Turin Madonna is now generally (and surely correctly) regarded as a masterpiece by Desiderio: N. Gabrielli's opinion in her catalogue of that collection (Galleria Sabauda: Maestri italiani (Turin, 1971), 261, no. 167) that it is an imitation by Bastianini has not met with support. It was bought in Florence by Baron Garriod in 1850 and casts may well have been taken from it in this period. In any case numerous stucco reproductions of it exist, most of them purporting to be, and many of them certainly looking like, fifteenth-century works (see L. Cardellini, Desiderio da Settignano (Milan, 1962), figs. 369-74). From one of these Fortnum's version could easily have been carved. 

Bell, in his annotations to Fortnum's large catalogue, recorded Bode's opinion that the Ashmolean's relief was a 'modern copy', and noted the great superiority of the relief in Turin, but he kept the piece on display in the Fortnum Gallery and in his Summary Guide of 1931 described it as 'school of Desiderio da Settignano' (p. 23). Kenneth Garlick informed Anthony Radcliffe in a letter of 19 October 1973 that he had just put it up in the redecorated Fortnum Gallery for better or for worse'. Radcliffe was then helping John Pope-Hennessy's research into the forging of Florentine quattrocento sculpture, research which resulted in Pope- Hennessy's paper, first published in Apollo in 1974, entitled "The Forging of Italian Renaissance Sculpture', in which Bode's opinion that the relief was a fake was repeated. "The relief differs', Pope-Hennessy correctly observes, from that in Turin, 'in the overall flattening of the forms, e.g. of the drapery beneath the Virgin's right forearm and of the Child's right hand, and in the misunderstanding of certain passages, e.g. in the decoration of the Virgin's dress on the right shoulder and the buttoning of her sleeve, represented with a third button and a seam that are not present in the original.' (J. Pope-Hennessy, The Study and Criticism of Italian Sculpture (Princeton, NJ, 1980), 267 n. 30.) The argument that the variations were stimulated by deficiencies in a cast of the original in Turin is persuasive. The relief certainly looks like a copy and probably (but not certainly) of the mid- nineteenth century, rather than of the fifteenth. Whether, if it is of the mid-nineteenth century, it was made to deceive, it is impossible to ascertain. For Lombardi see No. 27.

@@27

Imitator of DESIDERIO DA SETTIGNANO (b. c.1430, d. 1464) 

27. Virgin and Child 

66.5 cms. (height); 41 cms. (width) 

Pietra serena (fine-grained grey-green Fiesole sandstone). Unfinished. All the edges of the block of stone are chipped and irregular. The lower corner to proper right has broken off but has been reattached. 'S. /5./[EF]' is painted in black on this corner. The relief is set in a gilded wood frame of the 'Salvator Rosa' type but with an arched top and foliate ornament in the spandrels. 

Given by C. D. E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888. S. 5 in his catalogues. Bought 'from Lombardi [Francesco Lombardi] in Florence in 1859', for 17 gold Napoleons according to a receipt and certificate dated 16 February and signed by Lombardi which is stuck in the notebook catalogue. (It cost £14 10s. according to the separate 'Memoranda of prices paid'.) Said by Lombardi to have come from the Palazzo Brunaccini-Compagna, Florence (see below). 

Fortnum considered this unfinished schiacciato relief to be one of the masterpieces in his collection. He found the 'admirable folds of the drapery' and 'noble expression of the heads' comparable even with the celebrated relief, also in pietra serena, of an ideal female profile bust then regarded as of St Cecilia. This latter relief, now in the Toledo Museum of Art, had also been sold by Francesco Lombardi, the distinguished Florentine jeweller, goldsmith, and art dealer to 'an Englishman'. It was said to have come from the same source, Palazzo Brunaccini-Compagna, and was attributed by Lombardi to the same artist, Donatello. The Englishman who had bought the St Cecilia was either Samuel Woodburn or someone acting for him. At Woodburn's sale on 15 May 1854 it was bought by Mr Rickman 'of Duke St.' for Lord Elcho (not, as recently asserted, by a Mr Hickman acting independently). Fortnum also related his relief to another one in pietra serena of the Virgin and Child acquired for the South Kensington (now the Victoria and Albert) Museum in 1861 with the Gigli-Campana Collection (7582-1861). This was, with the St Cecilia, for the half-century between 1880 and 1930, one of the most admired, reproduced, and imitated of all Renaissance sculptures. 

Lombardi sold the relief to Fortnum with a certificate quoting the opinions of the eminent Florentine sculptors and academicians Emilio Santarelli and Vincenzo Consavi that it was by Donatello and came from the same source as the St Cecilia. Fortnum at first accepted this but he altered the in his notebook catalogue-he was now 'inclined to entry attribute these works to Desiderio rather than Donatello' and with this view most subsequent scholars agreed after the exhibition at the Royal Academy in 1888. Not long after Fortnum's death, however, Bode, the world's leading authority on Italian sculpture, visited Oxford and expressd doubts about the relief. C. F. Bell noted in the margin of Fortnum's large catalogue Bode's opinion that it was a forgery, perhaps by the same hand as No. 26. (He also noted the opinion of the Donatello scholar P. Schubring that the material was not pietra serena but verde di Prato.) Bell kept the relief on display in the Fortnum Gallery and in his Summary Guide of 1931 described it as 'school of Desiderio da Settignano' (p. 23). Doubts had also been expressed concerning the St Cecilia before 1910 but not by Bode who, however, did also believe that the Victoria and Albert Museum's relief was fake. 

In a paper first published in Apollo in 1974 entitled "The Forging of Italian Renaissance Sculpture', J. Pope-Hennessy grouped the three reliefs which Fortnum had first associated and cited three others in the same material as also being by the same hand: a portrait of a lady in the Detroit Institute of Art, a Virgin and Child sold in Zurich in 1909 (Hommel Sale, 10-18 August, lot 1149) and a portrait of a lady in Berlin, concluding that 'there can be no reasonable doubt that all of these six pietra serena reliefs belong together, were planned by a single mind, and date from the middle of the nineteenth century'. (The Study and Criticism of Italian Sculpture (Princeton, NJ, 1980), 235). He proposed that they were made by a Florentine sculptor, Odoardo Fantacchiotti (1809-77), for the dealer, jeweller, and goldsmith Francesco Lombardi (1787-1864). 

This hypothesis has met with widespread acceptance. But it is not proven. Lombardi is described as 'one of the principal instigators and one of the main vendors of forged sculptures' in Florence (ibid. 233), but no evidence is produced to support this claim. His tomb, erected by his heirs in S. Croce, incorporates what is now thought of as a very accomplished pastiche of a relief by Donatello, which Lombardi had given to the church in his lifetime. But, if it is a pastiche, might not Lombardi have been deceived by it? Surely genuine pride and piety, a desire to associate himself with a great work of Florentine devotional art and to gain credit for giving it to the public (for S. Croce is a museum of sorts), is more probable than Pope-Hennessy's proposal that he enjoyed the idea of continuing to fool connoisseurs after his death. As for Fantacchiotti, there is no very close relationship between the style of the pietra serena reliefs and the accomplished blend of neo-classicism with a quattrocento relief style found in his tondo of the Virgin and Child in the tomb of Raphael Morghen in S. Croce and in that on the Giuntini monument in S. Giuseppe, both completed in 1854, (illustrated by Pope-Hennessy, The Study and Criticism of Italian Sculpture, 230- 1, pls. 15 and 16). There is little sign in these reliefs of the distinctive mannerisms of those in Oxford and the Victoria and Albert Museum which derive from a study of Desiderio: the flattening of volumes (so that eyelids, fingers, limbs, and haloes seem to have been cut out of card or very thin dough), the rhyming of drapery folds and edges (so that, for example, the edge of the Virgin's sleeve in Oxford or one end of the openings in the cuff are aligned with folds in the drapery behind), the tremulous undulations of the Virgin's hair. Fantocchiotti had a genuine feeling for quattrocento art and was doubtless capable of mimicking it, but there were other sculptors of whom this was no less true-Ulisse Cambi, for instance, whose tomb in SS Annunziata for Marchese Luigi Tempi-Malzimedici, dated 1849, includes angels imitated from Luca della Robbia and a floral border imitated from Ghiberti, or the Venetian Vincenzo Favenza, who between 1849 and 1853 carved the boxwood dining room doors for Kingston Lacy in Dorset, imitating works by Donatello, Luca della Robbia, and Jacopo Sansovino, as well as the antique, as prescribed by his patron the connoisseur William Bankes (1786-1855). 

Little is known of Fantacchiotti's carcer and few works are attributed to the last years of his life, but this is true of many artists. There is nothing strange in reference books only listing carly works by which artists first established a reputation. In fact Fantacchiotti was at work on the ambitious and acclaimed Susanna (signed 1872, Musco d'Arte Moderna, Palazzo Pitti, Florence) in his later years and not merely engaged on minor monuments. And even if diminished productivity in the second half of his career were established there are numerous explanations for this other than the clandestine activity as a forger implied by Pope-Hennessy's observation that 'There is no telling what he was up to during the crucial years when foreign collectors and museums were engaged in the block buying of Italian sculptures', (ibid. 230-1). Elsewhere in his paper Pope-Hennessy discusses the case of Giovanni Bastianini, who was exposed as a forger in 1867, and remarks that as well as being trained at the Florentine Academy under Pio Fedi he 'may also have worked under Fantacchiotti; in any case the two sculptors must have known each other well' (ibid. 237). He 'may' have worked under Fantacchiotti, but there is no reason to suppose that he did: he would probably have 'known' Fantacchiotti, but there is no reason to suppose that they were friends or associates. 

The possibility that all three pietra serena reliefs grouped by Fortnum, the Toledo St Cecilia, the Victoria and Albert Museum's Virgin and Child and the Ashmolean Museum's unfinished Virgin and Child, are Renaissance works should be reconsidered. When compared with the works of Desiderio da Settignano, such as the reliefs in the Bargello and in the Galleria Reale in Turin or the exquisite fragment of a pietra serena relief of the Virgin and Child in the Musée at Lyons (I. Cardellini, Desiderio da Settignano (Milan, 1962), 121–2, 136-8, Fig. 323), which inspired them, it is impossible to believe that the Victoria and Albert and the Ashmolean reliefs are by Desiderio (I have not studied the St Cecilia). But Desiderio was imitiated in the fifteenth century as well as in the nineteenth. 

It is true that to most expert eyes today both the Virgin and Child reliefs have a modern 'look' but this is due to the great influence which the Victoria and Albert Museum relief enjoyed in the early decades of this century—a striking example of which is the marble head of the Virgin of 1922-3 by the young Henry Moore. No one could claim that the styles of the 1850s betray themselves in these works.

@@28

Workshop of Giovanni Franchi and Sons (active 1860s) 

After a follower of DONATELLO 

28. Entombment of Christ 

23.9 cms. (height); 45.3 cms. (length) 

Copper (electrotype) with some gilding. The relief is loosely mounted in a flat ebonized wooden frame with a gilded chamfer at the sight edge. 'B/703/' is painted in white on the back of the copper. The frame has an old paper label marked 'B 675 F'. 

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum in October 1894 and bequeathed in 1899. B. 675 in his large catalogue, B. 703 in his notebook catalogue. 

Fortnum described this as an Electro-deposit by Franchi from the work by Donatello in the Museum, Lambras, at Vienna [the Schloss Ambras Collection then on display in the Lower Belvedere]. Some portions of the original work are picked out with gold as the shield and fibula of the soldier, the sarcophagus &c. this has been reproduced in the deposit. Many years ago, I noticed this fine and highly elaborated work in a dark corner of the Ambras Museum and was most courteously permitted to have a cast taken from it, which was subsequently photographed at Venice [perhaps an error for Vienna], and from which the deposit was taken by Mr Franchi for the S.K.M. [South Kensington Museum]. It is engraved in Perkins Italian Sculptures. Supp'. p. 274. This relief which has, since 1891, been in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna (inv. 6059), is no longer regarded as a 'noble work in Donato's most forcible manner', as Fortnum proposed, but as the work of a follower, perhaps indebted to Mantegna as well as to Donatello. It is surely by the same artist as the no less mysterious bronze, gold, and silver mirror, the so-called Martelli Mirror, in the Victoria and Albert Museum (8717-1863) where one finds the same minute attention to folds and creases of drapery and skin and the same frozen expressions-a point not made in the admirable entry on the relief by M. Leithe-Jasper in Renaissance Master Bronzes from the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna (National Gallery of Art, Washington (and elsewhere), 1986), 61-4, no. 4. 

According to Leithe-Jasper the attribution to Donatello goes back to E. von Sacken's Kunstwerke und Geräthe des Mittelalters und der Renaissance in der Kais. Kön. Ambreser Sammlung in Originalphotographien (undated but Vienna, 1865). Fortnum, however, was not inclined to exaggerate his own discoveries; had the work been published when it was 'noticed' by him he would certainly have been told as much (since he must have had dealings with the curatorial staff in order to have a cast taken from it) and he was invariably scrupulous in recording such references. It is likely therefore that von Sacken took the attribution from Fortnum. His cast was made in the winter of 1865 and 1866 when Franchi was in Florence and Pisa making casts for the South Kensington Museum and Fortnum had a plaster of it made for presentation to that institution—the business is described in Fortnum's letter to Henry Cole of 10 January 1866 in the Victoria and Albert Museum. That Franchi was active in the making of electrotypes is clear from Fortnum's comment in his Bronzes of 1877, that 'electro deposit as carried out by Messrs Elkington and the late Signor Franchi' had been a 'singular success'. An idea of Franchi's talents as an original craftsman may be obtained from the casket he cast and chased to contain the memorandum of the Great Exhibition in 1871 (Victoria and Albert Museum 319-1872). His family firm were to become the principle rivals of Brucciani (see Nos. 450, 580, 581) as suppliers of academic plaster casts. 

In 1867 Fortnum acquired in Florence a fine plaquette of the Deposition (B. 615 in his catalogue) which he believed to be 'by Riccio or the master himself' (i.e. Donatello), which is now regarded as by Riccio but inspired by Donatello's relief (in stone, but thought by Fortnum to be in terracotta) made 1446-50 for the altar of the Santo in Padua which must also be the starting-point of the relief in Vienna.

@@29

After Francesco (François) DUQUESNOY (‘Il Fiammingo') (1597-1643) 

29. Sleeping child 

13.7 cms. (length); 7 cms. (height) 

Bronze with a brown patina with traces of black varnish and some verdigris. Hollow-cast. Open below. 

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum in October 1894 and bequeathed in 1899. Bought in Bologna in 1883 for 3 guincas. B. 450 in his large catalogue. 

The figure is derived, as Fortnum supposed, from the models of sleeping putti attributed to Duquesnoy which already existed in large numbers in bronze and ivory by the end of the seventeenth century, not only in Italy but in France and the Low Countries. Neither in the modelling nor in the finishing is this example a work of a quality that would normally have attracted Fortnum. 

@@30&31

After Francesco (François) DUQUESNOY ('Il Fiammingo') (1597-1643) 

30 and 31. Pair of plaquettes decorated with revelling children 

9.15 cms. (diameter of both plaquettes) 

Copper, fire-gilt. The gilding has worn off in a few salient parts. The metal is very thin and has been modelled in repoussé. Most of the detail has been chased (as distinct from chiselled). There are some small traces of verdigris in the front of one, and in the back of both, plaquettes. There are small perforations around the head of the goat, by the chin of the boy being dragged by the goat, and by the cheek of the boy dragging it in one case (30), and between the legs of the child pretending to be a ghost and by the recumbent child's right shoulder and right armpit in the other (31). The plaquette with the goat (30) is endorsed in white paint 'B./684/[EF]', the one with the 'ghost' (31) with 'B./685/[EF]'. 

Lent to the Museum by C. D. E. Fortnum on 14 September 1888 and given latter in the same year. B. 684 and B. 685 in his catalogues. No provenance is given in either catalogue, but they were presumably acquired after 1857 when the preliminary catalogue, in which they are not included, was compiled. 

The relief of the revelling children with a goat derives from a composition invented by Duquesnoy. Bellori relates how this sculptor made a relief of divine love fighting profane love, and another relief, the same size, of a bacchanal of putti dragging by the horns and beating a goat and including one boy frightening some others with a mask. The wax model was copied in porphyry by Tomaso Fedele of Rome, 'Tomaso del porfido', who was celebrated for fashioning this notably hard material with precision and softness. Bellori notes that the mezzo-rilievo by Tomaso after Duquesnoy was given by Cardinal Francesco Barberini to King Philip IV of Spain. In fact the relief by Tomaso is after the first of these compositions, the Sacred and Profane Love, payments for which were made in 1631. A marble relief of the bacchanal in the Doria Pamphili Collection has been dated to about 1626 (C. Noehles, 'F. Duquesnoy: Un busto ignoto e la cronologia delle sue opere', Arte antica e moderna (1964), 90, 93-4, n. 25; for Bellori see G. P. Bellori, Le vite de' pittori, scultori e architetti moderni, ed. E. Borea (Turin, 1976), 289–90). A notable seventeenth-century version of the goat composition is the one in black marble in the Villa Borghese (no. 508, reproduced in M. Fransolet, 'François du Quesnoy', Mémoires de l'Académie Royale de Belgique, 2nd series 9 (1942)). But if the composition originated in this complex scene of twelve actors it was soon reduced to eight, as in the ivory in the Victoria and Albert Museum (no. 1061, companion with no. 1064, a group of the putti around a goat which is milked by a satyr), to six, as here, or to four, as in the fictive frieze below the portrait of a man with a view of St Peter's by Hendrik Frans Van Lint (Copper, Slate and Marble (Hazlitt Gooden and Fox, Oct. 1967), no. 30). The composition of the children playing at ghosts (or blind man's buff, as Fortnum supposed) was much repeated in the eighteenth century but is of uncertain origin: it might be considered as a development of the theme initiated by Duquesnoy with his putto holding a mask (itself a development of an idea found on antique cameos). 

Gilt bronze or copper plaquettes of this type are sometimes found applied to luxury furniture in the eighteenth century. Such might well have been the purpose for which these examples were made. There is a pair of plaquettes of dancing and fighting putti of similar size in the Hermitage (M. Lopato, Western European Plaquettes... the Hermitage Collection (Leningrad, 1976), 63, no. 165, inv. 17551). The pretty landscape setting in the Ashmolean's reliefs also suggests an eighteenth-century date, but does not exclude a late seventeenth-century one. Fortnum described the plaquettes as 'carefully executed from designs by Clodion' in his notebook catalogue but changed this to 'the style of Clodion' in his large catalogue.

@@32

Pio FEDI (1816-92) 

32. Pia de' Tolomei and Nello della Pietra (also known as Il sospetto) 

90.2 cms. (height including integral plinth); 4 cms. (height of plinth); 35.2 cms. (diameter of plinth) 

Carrara marble. 'PIO FEDI SCULTORE FIORENTINO' is chiselled behind the figures on the upper surface of the octagonal plinth with 'FECE NEL 1872' in smaller capitals on a separate line. On the front of the same plinth and also on the upper surface is chiselled in decorated letters 'RICORDITI DI ME' to left of his left shoe, 'CHE SON LA PIA' to right, the capital 'R' and 'P' being larger and more decorated, and also on another line 'DANTE', to left of the shoe and 'PUR. C. V to right. There are numerous chips and losses to the lower moulding and the hollow of the octagonal base especially beside the left foot of Nello. Projecting drapery at the back of the group has also been broken. The pommel of his sword hilt and the end of the scabbard are missing. There are holes, regular in shape and penetrating carved areas in a manner which makes it seem unlikely that they are flaws in the marble, possibly caused by a pointing machine-large ones are on the back on his tunic and on the back of her right arm, smaller ones on her right breast and shoulder and in the back of her dress. 

When acquired, the marble was covered in a dirty yellow film with some black encrustation in the less conspicuous parts of the drapery and a few (test?) patches of clean and polished white marble. The sculpture had been filthy (but not apparently from exposure outside, since there was no evidence of frost damage) and cleaning had been attempted with an acidic solution, the surface thereby losing its original textures. Cleaning was continued in the conservation laboratories of the Ashmolean Museum's Department of Antiquities, by Kathleen Kimber under the direction of Mark Norman, with distilled water steam and some acetone. The holes, already mentioned, were filled and the surface was then slightly waxed. 

Purchased for £2,676 (hammer price £2,400) at Sotheby's, London, 10 June 1988, lot 140, from the France Fund, with a contribution of £1,320 from the Museums and Galleries Commission's Regional Fund administered by the Victoria and Albert Museum. The group arrived in the Museum on 28 June, but was in the conservation studio throughout 1988 and 1989. Put on display in the Combe Room in December 1989. 

The group illustrates the final lines (130-6) of the fifth Canto of Dante's Purgatorio (one of which is chiselled on the plinth): 

'Deh, quando tu sarai tornato al mondo, 

  e riposato della lunga via,' 

  sequitò il terzo spirito al secondo, 

'ricorditi di me, che son la Pia; 

  Siena mi fe', disfecemi Maremma: 

  salsi colui che innanellata, pria 

  

disposando, m'avea con la sua gemma.' 

Which may be translated: 

The third spirit upon the second followed: 

  'Pray, when the living world you have regained, 

  And taken rest from this long road, 

Remember me who was La Pia named. 

  Born in Siena: undone in the marshy land 

  Of Maremma. How is known to him who claimed 

Me with a ring; who held me in his hand.' 

Nineteenth-century commentators on Dante believed La Pia to be a lady of the Sienese family of Tolomei who married Nello d'Ighiramo, captain of the Tuscan Guelphs, and was put to death by him in 1295 at Castello della Pietra, in the Sienese Maremma, out of jealousy (unfounded, according to some). The manner of her death was said to have been confinement in a place where marsh air was fatal. Banchi in his commentary of 1886 proved that this identification was impossible. The subject was also treated by Domenico Trentanove in an imaginary bust portrait dated 1886 (Museo d'Arte Moderna, Palazzo Pitti, Florence) and by Dante Gabriel Rossetti in a finished drawing in a private collection and in a painting in the Spencer Art Gallery of the University of Kansas at Lawrence (1868). Whereas Rossetti showed the lady languishing in the Maremma, Pio Fedi represents her with her husband. The moment may be that at which suspicion steals into the husband's mind to the dismay of his innocent wife, or that at which intimations of his plans dawn upon her. Theodosia Trollope had no doubts: 

The group represents the ill-fated lady, at the moment when her husband prepared to leave her all alone in the dreary old tower of the Maremma, which is yet pointed out as the scene of her piteous ending. Laying one arm around his shoulder, she bends forward and looks into his averted face with anxious forboding, as though enquiring how soon he will return. He meanwhile gazes gloomily at the ground, wrapping himself in the blackness of his evil thought, and shrinking from the pleading eyes of his victim. He seems rather to be waiting for the sound of his horse's hoofs on the stones without, and chafing at its delay, than listening to her timid words of inquiry. ('Notes on the Most Recent Productions of Florentine Sculptors', Part III, Art Journal (1 July 1861), 210–11) 

This group may come as a surprise to those whose acquaintance with Pio Fedi's sculpture has been confined to the more conspicuous public monuments by him in Florence the once famous Rape of Polyxena (executed 1860-5 from an earlier plaster) which was erected by public subscription in the Loggia dei Lanzi, the statues of the sculptor Nicola Pisano and of the botanist and anatomist Andrea Cesalpino in the series of great Florentines filling the niches of the Uffizi (both commissioned in 1846), the monument to General Manfredo Fanti of 1872 in Piazza San Marco, or the Liberty on the monument to Niccolini of 1883 in Santa Croce. In its shallow relief and its costume accessories it reminds us of Fedi's training as a goldsmith and engraver, An interest in quattrocento sculpture found in the exquisite low relief of this group can also be seen in the figures on the base of the Fanti monument and he in fact created a number of sculptures of historical subjects involving virtuoso marble carving for instance his Beatrice Cenci at her Trial or his infant Christopher Columbus seated half-nude on the shore among the sea shells earnestly launching a model boat (a group dated 1886)—and he was also interested in sweetly ornamental gallery sculpture which represented mental disturbance, intriguing because inaccessible to us-as in his Secret, a group of a mother carnestly listening to a confidence whispered by her son, or his Chrysalis in which a young nude girl contemplates with perplexity a cocoon from which a butterfly is emerging, an emblem of her own puberty. Versions of these sculptures were numbers 89, 91, 224, and 225 in Fedi's atelier sale in Florence on 28, 30 April and 1 May 1894 (catalogue in French, sale 'sous la direction de Mr G. Sangiorgi'), where a version of this group 108 cms. high signed 'Pio Fedi scolpì' featured as no. 223 (illustrated) together with a twisted column pedestal of verde di Prato 103 cms. high. In addition there were two plaster casts (lots 97 and 194) and the first maquettes, also in plaster (lots 35 and 43), of the group. 

The group of La Pia and Nello was originally made as a model in 1846 and commissioned as a full-size marble, to match Dupré's Dante and Beatrice, by the Grand Duke Leopold II in the same year (the contract was dated 

17 November). Final payment was made on 31 May 1848 and at the end of that year or early in 1849 a repetition was commissioned. One of these two versions was placed in the grand ducal gardens at Poggio Imperiale. Neither has been traced. (Cultura neoclassica e romantica nella Toscana granducale (Palazzo Pitti, Florence, 1972), 75-6, no. 12, entry by Sandra Pinto.) Leopold II took special interest in the Maremma as a subject (the marshes were then being drained) and he also commissioned from Enrico Pallastrini (1817-76) a painting of Nello at the tomb of La Pia. He also took a special interest in Pio Fedi, paying for him to study in Rome earlier in the 1840s. The group remained immensely popular and Fedi made a number of replicas on a reduced scale. The earliest of these would seem to be that dated 1861, and exhibited in that year at the Esposizione Italiana di Firenze, which is now in the Galleria d'Arte Moderna, Palazzo Pitti (Cultura neoclassica..., op. cit.). All the later versions seem to have been bought by British visitors to Florence for whom the exquisite textures, miniature detail, medieval dress, and psychological drama were already familiar from the paintings of the Pre-Raphaelites. It is in fact tempting to propose that the lost original version of Fedi's group was an influence on Holman Hunt's Claudio and Isabella (completed 1850) and Munro's Paolo and Francesca (completed in plaster by 1851). Mrs Trollope when she visited Fedi's studio in Via Chiara (near that of Hiram Powers) noted that the group was 'being twice repeated on commission for London, the one for Mr Overend, the other for Mr N. Clayton' (op. cit.). She noted that there are not wanting distinguished art judges who rank this 'poetical little group' on a level with 'Signor Fedi's colossal Pyrrhus and Polyxena'. 

The versions she mentions are likely to be identical with two sold in London in recent years--at Sotheby's, 6-7 November 1986, lot 307 bearing the inscription 'Pio Fedi Statuario di Firenze Sculpi 1862', and at Sotheby's, 18- 21 March 1988, Lot 120 signed 'Sculptor. P. Fedi. Fior", without a date. This latter version (purchased by Anthony Roth, then of Maddox Street), which is in exceptionally good condition, has a narrower original plinth than the others (diameter 27 cms.) and also a separate octagonal base. It is also considerably smaller (67.6 cms. high including the 2 cms. high plinth). In these versions and the Ashmolean's the detailing is different: for instance, the rope by which her purse is suspended and the tassels hanging from it, the ornament on his sword belt, the patterns of the brocade. Careful variations such as this are impossible in routine studio reproductions, and the date of 1872 on the Ashmolean's version, not being the date of the first reduced version, is surely a further indication of its status as a special replica by Fedi himself the creation of which he felt to be worth documenting. It is noteworthy that in the Ashmolean version some symbolism is probably intended in the patterns of the brocade: there are dragons on his sleeves and putti play with birds in the panels of her dress. Similar versions and variants are recorded of Fedi's La Fiorentina, dated 1874, in the Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool, which seems to be the only other recorded statue by him in a public collection in Britain (see Walker Art Gallery: Foreign Catalogue (Liverpool, 1977), no. 4226, pp. 298-9).

Mrs Trollope noted that Fedi had tried to repeat the success of this group with another of Ippolito Buondelmonte with Dianora de' Bardi which was in course of execution in 1861.

@@33

Unknown Italian factory 

After Giovanni Battista FOGGINI (1652–1725) 

33. Bacchus and Ariadne 

30.5 cms. (height); 23.3 cms. (length, from panther head beside thigh of Bacchus to the vase beside Ariadne); 22.7 cms. (length of integral base); 14.9 cms. (width of integral base) 

Earthenware of a pinky cream colour (warmer in tone than its companion No. 34). The glaze is very slightly green where gathered, very slightly crazed in places, and worn and chipped in a few small arcas. The left foot of Bacchus is broken off and the toes lost, two fingers of the left hand of Ariadne are broken off and lost, the left arm of Bacchus is broken at the shoulder and repaired with ugly discoloured adhesive apparent in the join and chipped edges to it, and a large chip is missing from the base, front proper right (this is the only recent damage). The group was cast in four the parts: base (which is hollow below); the two figures (hollow only in the thickest parts); and the urn (apparently hollow), all of which would have been assembled before firing. The leaves and grapes were also evidently separately modelled and dropped into place at this stage- many of these are chipped or have fallen off, which might be carly damage. 

Purchased from David Pickup Ltd. of 15 High Street, Burford, together with No. 34 for £1,250 on 5 March 1989 with a contribution of £625 from the Regional Fund administered by the Victoria and Albert Museum, the remainder coming from the Reginald Jones Bequest Fund. The groups were seen by Gerald Taylor in Late January 1989 and taken to the Museum on 30 January. Purchased by Mr Pickup at the sale of Hill Court, Herefordshire, in 1986. 

This group, representing Bacchus introducing Ariadne to viticulture, seems to have been designed by Foggini as a bronze. Several casts are known in this medium: one is in the National Gallery of Art, Washington (exhibited The Twilight of the Medici (Gli ultimi Medici) (Detroit and Florence, 1974), no. 297); another is in the J. Paul Getty Museum, Malibu (83.SB.333); another is in the Musée Nissim de Camondo, Paris (no. 110); another in the Musée Jacquemart-André, Paris (n. 251-formerly Bardini Collection); and others are in private collections (see catalogue entry by J. Montagu in the catalogue of the exhibition just cited, in the unpaginated addenda). Most of these bronze groups are paired (or are known to have once been paired) with a group of Venus and Cupid also by Foggini. 

The group was evidently also made in terracotta, and subsequently in porcelain by the Doccia factory, for a late eighteenth-century inventory of models includes a 'Gruppo di Arianna e Bacco. La detta Arianna in alto di premere l'uva in un vaso, di terra cotta con forma. Del Foggini.' The piece- mould survives in the factory's museum (K. Lankheit, Die Modellsammlung der Porzellanmanufaktur Doccia (Munich, 1982), 127, pl. 123). The porcelain version (as reconstructed from the surviving moulds) differed in no essential respects from the bronze except that the grapes are held less high by Bacchus and connect with the grapes in his hair which thus supplies an additional support. The Ashmolean's earthenware must be derived from a porcelain version. Much detail has been lost. There is no longer any pattern on the girdle passing between Ariadne's breasts and she no longer wears a bracelet. The vase beside her has no handle and she is given no grapes to squeeze into it. There is no vine branch on the ground between her and Bacchus. Her face is also turned slightly up. The modelling is also generally much cruder. For the factories where it could have been made see No. 34.

@@34

Unknown Italian foundry 

After Giovanni Battista FOGGINI (1652–1725) 

34. Hercules and Iole 

31.15 cms. (height); 26.7 cms. (length, from Iole's right arm's stump to the right hand of Hercules); 22.7 cms. (length of integral base); 15.1 cms. (width of integral base) 

Earthenware of a pinky cream colour. The glaze is slightly green where gathered, crazed in a few areas (e.g. on the left knee of Hercules), and either worn or chipped off in numerous areas (e.g. on the right thigh of Hercules). The left foot of Hercules has been broken and repaired, three of the fingers of his left hand have been broken and are lost, his nose and upper lip have been broken off and are lost, the thumb of Iole's left hand has been broken off and is lost, her right arm has been broken at the wrist, and the hand is lost. There is a large chip missing from the base, back proper left (this is the only recent damage). There is a hole in the base beside the right foot of Hercules to secure his club held by Iole (now missing). The group was cast in four parts; the base (which is hollow below); the two figures (hollow only in the thickest parts); and the club (presumably solid), all of which would have been assembled before firing. 

See No. 33 for provenance. 

This group representing Hercules infatuated with Iole, having surrendered his club and lion skin to her and taking up her distaff (as described by Boccaccio and Tasso, adapting the ancient tale of Hercules and Omphale), seems to have been designed by Foggini as a bronze and several casts are known in this medium: some were exhibited by his sons; one was catalogued as his work in Düsseldorf in 1751; examples are known in several private collections; and one is in the Victoria and Albert Museum (A. 9-1956) for these see the entry for the latter version by J. Montagu in the catalogue of the exhibition The Twilight of the Medici (Gli ultimi Medici) (Detroit and Florence, 1974), 60-1, no. 24. There is also a terracotta version in the Birmingham City Museum and Art Gallery, in which the right leg of Iole is not crossed behind that of Hercules, which might be a variant on the composition by Foggini, but is more probably by a follower. 

A wax model was recorded in a late eighteenth-century inventory of the Doccia factory 'Gruppo d'Ercole e Jole. Del Foggini in cera con forma'-and the piece-mould survives in the factory's museum (K. Lankheit, Die Modellsammlung der Porzellanmanufaktur Doccia (Munich, 1982), 122). It was no doubt a version in porcelain which served as the model for this and other versions in earthenware. These differ from the bronze in that here the arm of Hercules is placed on his hip rather than being raised. The lion skin in the earthenware version also falls over Iole's shoulder, the drapery folds between the legs of Hercules are less deeply undercut, and there is no plant on the rock-work base. 

A version of this group is illustrated by Giuseppe Morazzoni in his La terraglia italiana (Milan, n.d. [?1956], pl. 119), paired, as this is, with one of Bacchus and Ariadne, both in the collection of Cav. Eugenio Imbert in Milan (perhaps the pair today displayed in the Castello Sforzesco, Milan). Another version of the Bacchus and Ariadne in the same collection and also illustrated (pl. 116) seems to have been a companion with a Pan and Syrinx after the famous antique group (see F. Haskell and N. Penny, Taste and the Antique (London and New Haven, Conn., 1981), 286-8). Both the Hercules and Iole and two Bacchus and Ariadne groups illustrated in Morazzoni are certainly from the same factory as the Ashmolean's groups. This is identified by Morazzoni as the Manifattura Aldrovrandi in Bologna and the models are even attributed to Giacomo Rossi who is known to have managed the factory. No reasons are given, but tradition (which is presumably the basis for the attribution) must be treated with respect. 

Count Filippo Aldrovandi-Marescotti opened the factory in 1794 in his palace in Contrada Galliera, Bologna: it was in full operation by 1798. The aim was to compete with English creamware which was being so successfully exported to Italy and the body consisted of 'terra di Vicenza bianchissima' together with pure white marble dust from Carrara and the glaze was made with 'litargirio d'Inghilterra', Italian flint, and sea salt (Morazzoni, op. cit. 109-15). The earthenware body of these groups is pale but is less fine than creamware. 

There are many other factories in Italy at which these figures might have been produced-the Este factory from 1779 under the ownership of Girolamo Franchini (1728-1808) has been regarded as a likely place of origin-so too has the Ferniani factory at Faenza. A version of the group of Hercules and Iole was certainly made at Faenza but in a more careful model with numerous variations (the right leg of Hercules is drawn in, his left arm raised as in the bronzes-Iole's head is differently inclined, a lion's paw is tied across her breasts) and as a companion group with an entirely different interpretation of Bacchus and Ariadne. (The examples of these groups in the Villa Case Grandi in Faenza come from the factory's own collection-see the catalogue of the exhibition L'età neoclassica a Faenza (Palazzo Milzetti, Faenza, 1979), 242, nos. 533-4, pl. 398.) On the other hand examples of the Ashmolean groups also survive in Faenza's Museo Internazionale delle Ceramiche (inv. nos. 9859 and 9860- ibid. 243, nos. 538-9, unillustrated). Several large groups, one of a couple at an altar, another of Pan making unwelcome advances to a girl, and a third of Cupid and Psyche included in the Cini gift displayed (without labels) in Palazzo dei Conservatori in Rome are very similar in modelling and colour and character of glaze to the Ashmolean groups and must be from the same factory.

@@35

Unknown founder 

Perhaps after Giovanni Battista FOGGINI (1652-1725) 

35. Group of furniture mounts: four scroll feet, four tendril volutes, and five plants 

8.3 cms. (height of each foot); 16 cms. (length of each foot); 35.5 cms. (length of each tendril); 4.4 cms. (height of the largest, central plant); 19.8 cms. (length of the largest, central plant) 

Bronze, fire-gilt. Each ornament is solid cast. All are partially textured with a punch. Two of the plants retain hand-wrought irregular- headed gilded nails. 

The mounts are attached to the 'Fitzwilliam Coin Cabinet'. Purchased for the Heberden Coin Room from 'The Highly Important Collection of Roman Brass Coins and Medallions originally formed in the mid-eighteenth century' and sold by order of 'The Earl Fitzwilliam's Wentworth Estates Company' by Christie's at Spencer House 30 and 31 May 1949 in which it was the final lot, 501. According to tradition in the Coin Room the cabinet was purchased by the Keeper without previous plans, but copies of the catalogue mark it down to 'Spink' for £50. Whether the Keeper asked Spink's to bid shortly before the lot was auctioned, or bought it immediately afterwards from Spink's, is not clear. The cabinet of ebony with pietra dura pictures, friezes, and columns is presumed to have been acquired by the 2nd marquis of Rockingham (1730- 82) when he was still Lord Malton, perhaps when in Florence on the Grand Tour between his arrival there in early January 1748/9 and his departure for Siena in May 1749, or upon his return there around 1 September 1749, but cabinets of this type, a speciality of the grand ducal workshops in Florence, had been popular th British visitors to Italy for over a century. 

The cabinet was not originally designed for coins and the substructure in ebonized wood decorated with ivory medallions (see Nos. 159-61) must have been added in the third quarter of the eighteenth century when it was converted for this purpose. The ormolu Venus on top (see No. 40) is also an addition but of what date is less certain. The cabinet if purchased by Rockingham may not have been acquired with conversion in mind. Although his passion for collecting coins was well established by 26 April 1750 when he wrote to his father from Rome that he had not been able to resist the 'temptation' of purchasing 'medalls', he is unlikely to have been bothered by storage problems at that moment. He continued to collect avidly long after he returned, boasting in 1774 that his 'collection of Great Brass is indeed acknowledged to be the finest in Europe in regard to the great number of rare heads and reverses, and also in regard to the high preservation they are in. I keep constantly upon the watch to pick up what I can in England, and having now been a collector for near 28 years and having always found great pleasure in the pursuit, I shall constantly continue it' (R. J. Hopper, 'The Second Marquis of Rockingham, Coin Collector', Antiquaries Journal, 62/2 (1982), 322). 

This was not the only example of Florentine pietra dura work, nor the only elaborate cabinet, in Rockingham's possession. A 'curious cabinet' of tortoiseshell, ivory, and ebony is the work of art which receives most attention in the 'Description of Wentworth House' published in the Universal Magazine for October 1770 (169-70). In the inventory of 'Household Goods, Plate, Pictures' etc. made after Rockingham's death we find two entries which might correspond with the Ashmolean's cabinet: a 'Cabinet Curiously inlaid with different kinds of Stones and Ornamented with Glass Columns & containing 10 Drawers, upon a black frame' in the Green Drawing Room at Wentworth Woodhouse (p. 13', this part of the inventory dated 16 September 1782) and a 'Black Ebony Cabinet Beautifully inlaid with Marbles etc.' in a ground floor room of the family's house in Grosvenor Square, London (p. 51', this part dated 28 August 1782). An 'Italian casket with domed lifting top exterior decorated in pietra dure [sic] mosaic with sprays of fruit held by ribands on black marble and ebonised ground with ormolu corner mounts and borders chased with masks and foliage' was lot 27 in the sale at Christie's, London, on 15 July 1948 of 'Etruscan and Greek Vases and Fine English Furniture' from Wentworth Woodhouse. An 'Important Early 18th Century Italian Ebony Cabinet and stand... elaborately inlaid in lapis lazuli scaglia [sic] and coloured marbles with exotic birds and of flowers and fruit' was lot 293 in the sale of a 'large portion sprays of the contents of Wentworth Woodhouse' conducted at the house, 4-9 July 1949, by H. Spencer and Sons of Retford, Worksop, and Sheffield. 

Some of the ormolu mounts on the coin cabinet-the four scroll and shell feet, the four tendril volutes, and the five loosely arranged plants on the cornice-are likely to be original, although it is hard to be sure since they have all been refixed. There are also some very inferior ornaments in mastic and wood such as the leaves above the keyhole escutcheon, and the drop below it. The keyhole escutcheon itself, which is the most remarkable of the ormolu mounts, is catalogued separately (No. 63). It may always have been fitted to this cabinet but it looks as if it might originally have been designed for another, earlier piece. The scrolled feet are very close in character to those on an ebony and pietra dura casket in a private collection which have been attributed to Foggini and, if enlarged, would be similar to those on the celebrated ebony and pietra dura prie-dieu in Palazzo Pitti which was made by A. Suster, G. A. Torricelli, and P. Molti to Foggini's designs in 1706 (A. González-Palacios, Il tempio del gusto (La Toscana e l'Italia settentrionale), 2 vols. (Milan, 1986), i. 43-4, 51, ii, pls. 88 and 135). The bronze tendrils are very similar to those projected in about 1705 for the urn of S. Maria Maddalena de' Pazzi in a drawing made by Foggini now in the Metropolitan Museum, New York, and they may also be related to some of the ornaments on a sumptuous pietra dura table presented to the king of Denmark in 1709, now in Rosenberg Castle, Copenhagen (ibid. i, pl. xii, ii, pl. 124). Whereas it could be argued that the feet are merely in the style of the late seventeenth century in Italy, tendrils of this sort seem to be an original invention of Foggini's

@@36

Antonio GAI (1686-1769) 

36. Angel supporting a horn- shaped candle-holder 

52.8 cms. (height including base); 2.1 cms. (height of base); 13.5 cms. (diameter of base) 

Bronze with oil gilding, extensively worn to reveal a slightly olive tan coloured natural patina. There is evidence of extensive chiselling. The figure is hollow, and presumably a lost-wax cast. The wings are solid cast and riveted to the back-solder now reinforces a join which must originally have been neater. The chiselling of the feathers passes over the join. The upper portion of the horn has been cast separately and soldered. There is a hole between the wings in the figure's back. 'A[D] GAI 1749' is chiselled with angular strokes on the side of the integral base behind the figure at proper left: the cross bar of the 'A' is in the form of a 'v' and the top of the '9' is squared. This is preceded by a diagrammatic chalice, also chiselled. 

Purchased in late January 1960 from Herbert N. Bier of 2 Strathearn Place, Hyde Park Square, London W2, for £900, from the France Fund with the assistance of a grant from the National Art-Collections Fund. Registered 15 December 1960. 'In recent times' it had belonged to 'an American Collector'. 

The angel must have been companion to another in a complementary pose, as Parker noted when publishing the bronze in the Annual Report for 1960 (p. 65); indeed it probably belonged originally to a set of four, not least because it is very similar in character to the four standing angels (over 4 ft high) also with horn-shaped candle-holders which Tiziano Aspetti was commissioned to make in the autumn of 1593 by the Congregazione dell'Arca for the altar of St Anthony, in S. Antonio, Padua (see A. Sartori, Documenti per la storia dell'arte a Padova (Vicenza, 1976), 11-12). Gai may well have been asked to take these famous angels as his models: if so he was not averse to imitating details as well as the general appearance of Aspetti's work: the belts and drapery borders of Aspetti's angels, and of the four Virtues he created for the altar rail of the same church, reappear in Gai's work. 

What must be either the companion or, more probably, one of three companions for the Ashmolean's angel was exhibited at the Heim Gallery, September 1984 (as no. 31), and belongs to the London art dealer Daniel Katz. It has a black varnish much worn to expose a brassy metal like that of the Ashmolean's bronze, with traces of gilding, and the name, date, and device chiselled in the same style on the side of the base. Since the right foot of Mr Katz's angel is advanced and his head turned to his left he must have been placed on the other side of the altar to the Ashmolean's angel, but since his hands are joined in prayer it seems likely that he was matched by another in an equivalent attitude. Beside Mr Katz's angel there was perhaps one with his left hand to the breast in adoration, more or less a mirror image of the Ashmolean's. 

The workmanship and material of these angels by Gai is characteristic of other Venetian eighteenth-century bronzes; the same brassy colour and extensive chiselling is found, for example, in similarly sized figures by Francesco Bertos (active) 1693-1734) of SS Francis Xavier and Ignatius of Loyola--lot 118 at Christie's, London, 3 July 1985. Gai, who was (according to Tomaso Temanza, Zibaldon, ed. N. Ivanoff [Civilità veneziana: Fonti e testi, 6, 1st series 3] (n.d., [1963]), 29) apprenticed to a wood carver, is recorded as executing numerous works in wood, stone, and marble all over the Veneto (see the list compiled by Camillo Semenzato in La scultura veneta del seicento e del settecento (Venice, 1966), 131-2), but only one commission for a bronze is documented. This was for the gates of the Loggetta of the Campanile of Piazza San Marco in Venice upon which we read 'ANT. GAI ET FILII. VEN. INV. FUS. & CAELAR MDCCXXXIV.', which is an unusually explicit statement of total responsibility for modelling, casting, and tooling. There can be little doubt that Gai (or his sons Francesco and Giovanni) had considerable experience in this medium; he could not otherwise have been awarded such an important commission. And yet the two altar angels described above are the only other two works in bronze that can be associated with him. 

These angels may (as suggested above) have been commissioned as small variants on Aspetti's, and the the Loggetta obviously had to be in a style congruous with the sculpture and architecture of Sansovino, but Gai was in any case inclined to revive a sixteenth-century style in reaction to the followers of Bernini. He consistently avoided bustling drapery, deep shadows, broken outlines, and dynamic torsion in his figures. In this conservatism Gai was doubtless encouraged by the most important arbiter of taste then resident in Venice, Consul Smith, whose patronage he enjoyed and who was responsible for sending some of his works to Britain--'Atalanta', 'Meleagro', and 'Senatori antichi' are cited in a contemporary source (Temanza, op. cit. 31). 

A Meleager in marble, 143 cms. high, and dated 1735, was sold at Sotheby's, London, 22 April 1986, lot 48 (the vendor was anonymous, but the sculpture was included in a photograph of private rooms at Castle Howard published in the World of Interiors magazine). This figure is very close to the Ashmolean's angel especially in the flattened and straight- lined folds of drapery but also in the manner in which the figure's left hand is caught in the drapery and the foot projects beyond the circular base. The Swedish diplomat and collector Nicholas Tessin noted that no sculptor in Italy was more highly esteemed than 'le grand Gai', this 'demi Michel-Ange', 'si fort gâté par les Anglais qu'il demande et obtient 80 seguins pour la moindre petite Statue' (O. Sirén, Dessins et tableaux de la Renaissance italienne dans les collections de Suède (Stockholm, 1902), 109). A much damaged statue by Gai, rescued from an English country house park, survives in a private garden in Oxford. 

@@37

Possibly by Gaetano GANDOLFI (1734-1802) 37. Fortitude 

43.4 cms. (height); 27.5 cms. (length) 

Terracotta of a pale beige colour. There are traces of some dark colour on the ground and many traces of gilding, for instance on the figure's right breast, on the lion's right ear, and in the follicles above his upper lip. There are also traces of gesso, most obvious under the figure's right forearm, which was presumably a preparation for the gilding. Several of the straps over the biceps of the figure's left arm are missing and there has been a small loss to the lion's right car. The group was modelled in two parts and joined before firing, doubtless in order to facilitate the hollowing of the clay. The base, lion, and draped legs were modelled together with the figure's left hand and a portion of drapery. The join across the figure's right wrist and the drapery in her left hand is apparent and there is a small aperture where the belly meets the front fold of drapery. 

The group is first mentioned in a letter of 7 March 1960 from the dealer David Carritt to Sir Karl Parker: 'I have just bought something which would amuse you very much: a terracotta group representing Bologna as a lady sitting on a lion, the work of Gaetano Gandolfi. I shall send you some photographs.' A letter enclosing these and giving the price of £275 was dated two days later. The sculpture was bought with the assistance of the Regional Fund administered by the Victoria and Albert Museum and registered on 4 June 1960. 

The terracotta is likely to be a modello for a larger sculpture in stucco or marble which has not been identified (it may never have been executed or may have been destroyed). It is designed to be seen from several points of view and is compelling but somewhat simplified from behind which suggests a position on the canted podium at the corner of a free-standing, or a boldly projecting, monument. 

The sculpture was attributed to Ubaldo Gandolfi by K. T. Parker in the Annual Report (1960: 66) 'both on stylistic and circumstantial evidence'. The 'circumstantial evidence' would appear from a note in the Register to have been the dealer's claim that it was acquired from a descendant of Gandolfi in Bologna-presumably there was a tradition that it had been made by a member of the family. No details of this transaction, of the family's history, or of their heirlooms generally are given in the correspondence with David Carritt, whose nose for concealed treasures and deftness at extracting them, was, however, proverbial and who is unlikely to have invented the story. Both Ubaldo (1728-81) and Gaetano (1734-1802) Gandolfi, leading painters and engravers in Bologna in the second half of the eighteenth century, are known to have made clay models as part of the preparation of their paintings, Gaetano is documented as the author of the competition reliefs in terracotta which survive in the Accademia Clementina in Bologna. There is no proof that he was given sculptural commissions later in his career but various terracottas have been attributed to him, including the remarkable polychrome Lamentation group in the sanctuary of the Madonna di S. Luca in Bologna of the 1780s. Ubaldo is documented as having designed the large statue of Diana in the garden of Casa Savioli in 1773 (also partially executed by him but with much assistance from Giovanni Lipparini) and as having modelled in 1780 the imposing stucco figures of Isaiah and Jeremiah for the new church of S. Giuliano in Bologna. (R. Roli, 'Aggiunte e precisazioni sui Gandolfi plasticatori', Il Carobbio (1976); E. Riccòmini, Vaghezza e furore: La scultura del settecento in Emilia e Romagna (Bologna, 1977), 123-4). Ubaldo's declamatory stucco prophets (Riccòmini, op. cit., 201-2) differ greatly in style from the Ashmolean terracotta. Gaetano's documented reliefs are closer, although they present no obvious similarities, and, if we accept the 'circumstantial' evidence pointing to authorship by one of them, then Gaetano (Carritt's candidate) must be preferred to Ubaldo. If all that was known of the Ashmolean terracotta was that it came from Emilia- Romagna one would perhaps be inclined to attribute it to Antonio Trentanove (b. c.1740, d. 1812) in whose work one can find the same broad heavy drapery treated with an easy fluency. The lion which he modelled for his St Mark in S. Lucia, Forlì, also has the same comic face as the one here (Riccòmini, op. cit., pl. 119). 

A sample was taken by Mrs Doreen Stoneham of the Oxford Research Laboratory for Archaeology and the History of Art in March 1987 and thermo-luminiscence tests suggested that it had been fired between 1727 and 1827 (ref. 381-z-94). 

@@38

Vincenzo GEMITO (1852-1929) 

38. Emperor Charles V 

22 cms. (height including socle); 5.5 cms. (height of socle); 5.8 cms. (length and width of plinth of socle) 

Bronze with a dark chestnut brown patina worn to a paler brown in some salient or smooth areas. Hollow, lost-wax, cast. Traces of plaster core (and animal hair bonding) in interior, and a line of flashing inside the neck. The turned portion of the socle with its plinth are separately cast and soldered to the projection below the chest. '500' is chiselled in the interior of the socle. 'OPRIETÀ ARTISTICA' (for 'Proprietà artistica') is incised in the model across the side of the plinth of the socle at the back and 'GEMITO' is incised in the model on the back of the projection below the chest. A minute foundry stamp in the metal to the edge of the chest to proper left: 'FONDERIA/GEMITO/NAPOLI' has slipped to read 'FOND/GEMERIA/NAPITO /...I' 

Purchased on 6 October 1987 from Anthony Roth Fine Arts Ltd, 49 Maddox Street, London, for £6,000, with the fund established by Dame Helen Gardner. 

A life-size full-length statue of the Emperor Charles V was commissioned from Gemito by King Umberto I in 1886 for the façade of the Palazzo Reale in Naples as one of a series of eight statues of the city's illustrious rulers (or at least eminent viceroys). The commission, together with another for a silver centrepiece, precipitated a mental collapse in the artist who was admitted in 1887 to an asylum from which he immediately fled. The statue had to be completed by another sculptor using Gemito's design. Gemito's original wax model for the statue is in the Galleria d'Arte Moderna, Milan (L. Caramel and C. Pirovano, Galleria d'Arte Moderna: Opera dell'ottocento F.-M. (Milan, 1975), no. 1032, pl. 1030). This bronze may be an abbreviation of such a preliminary sketch.  In any case it is possibly identical with the 'esquisse de Charles V', a bronze exhibited by Gemito at the Exposition Universelle of 1900 in Paris where his lost-wax casts, of which this is a superlative example, had been enormously admired since the success of his Neopolitan Fisherboy at the Salon of 1878 and his portrait of Meissonier completed in 1879. Gemito had established his own foundry by 1883-'geloso di Cellini', as he informed Meissonier (S. di Giacomo, La vita e l'opera di Vincenzo Gemito (Naples, 1905), 121)-but how active this was, and indeed how active Gemito was, during the period of about twenty years after he fled from the asylum and became a recluse is not clear, nor are the exact degree and duration of his mental illness (see the admirable review of the conflicting evidence by P, Fusco in 'Medusa as a Muse for Vincenzo Gemito (1852-1929)', J. Paul Getty Museum Journal, 16 (1988), 127-8 n. 6). We have no record of other casts of this bust, but it is unlikely to be unique. A bronze statuette of the whole length figure is in the Museo di Capodimonte, Naples (IC 4110). 

@@ 39

Unknown foundry 

After Giovanni Bologna (GIAMBOLOGNA) (1529-1608) 

39. Woman at the bath 

33.2 cms. (height including integral base) 

Bronze with a natural patina of olive green and pale tan with vestiges of blackened varnish. A few traces of plaster in the hollows. The interior blocked with wax. No obvious evidence of tooling. 'B.420 ' is painted in white on upper surface of base behind the foot. Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum in October 1894 and bequeathed by him in 1899. B. 420 in his catalogues. For the circumstances of its display when in his collection see Nos. 112-15. It was then placed upon a shaft of green fossil marble for which see the bust of Henri IV (No. 299). Purchased in Rome 'about 1853' according to both the large, and the notebook, catalogues, but 'bt. Rome 1851' according to the preliminary catalogue compiled in 1856 (38), and possibly identical with the 'Venus XVc' purchased by him before 1851, together with a Spinario and the miniature version of Michelangelo's Pietà (No. 60), according to his manuscript 'memoranda of prices paid'. 

Fortnum described this a few years after he had purchased it as 'Venus stepping from a Bath after the marble in the Villa Ludovisi known as the Venus of M. angelo' (preliminary notebook catalogue, 38), but he considered that it was 'in the style of Giovanni da Bologna'. A bronze statuette (24.8 cms. high) of this same figure with the artist's name, 'IOANNES BOLOGNA BELGA', chiselled on its base, in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna (no. 5874), has been plausibly, but not certainly, identified as the Venus by Giambologna presented to the Emperor Maximilian II by the Grand Duke Cosimo I de' Medici in 1565. If so, however, he returned to the theme when he carved the nearly life-size marble now in the American Embassy in Rome (the Ludovisi Venus to which Fortnum alludes) for Giovanni Giorgio Cesarini in 1583 (C. Avery, Giambologna (Oxford, 1987), 107, pl. 101). There are numerous bronze versions of this figure, all of them larger in size than the signed one in Vienna, but differing only in minor details-the treatment of the fringe of the drapery by the feet and of the coiled hair, for instance. Many of these are very close to the version in the Ashmolean Museum, not only in size and details, but in finish (there being little evidence of tooling in the metal, as Fortnum observed). Some were being made in Florence by the early seventeenth century and one was among the group of statuettes presented in 1611 by the Grand Duke Cosimo II de' Medici to Henry, prince of Wales (K. Watson and C. Avery, 'Medici and Stuart: A Grand Ducal Gift of "Giovanni Bologna" Bronzes for Henry Prince of Wales (1612)', Burlington Magazine, 115 (1973), 493-512). It was described in the inventories of King Charles I as 'a stoopeing standing woeman upon one leg... her left hand on her left nipple' (ibid. 506). 

A list of bronzes of this type is given by William Wixom in his Renaissance Bronzes from Ohio Collections (Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, Ohio, 1975), under no. 148. This list, however, includes variants in which the drapery consists of one continuous piece of cloth. There are fine versions of this variant, among them that on loan to Cleveland Muscum from the Bishop family (ibid., no. 148), as well as very poor nineteenth-century sand-casts (see for example the example in the reserve collection of the Fogg Museum, Cambridge, Mass., 1937-13). It cannot be proved that this variant was invented by Giambologna. It relates to another figure of a nude woman at the bath attributed to him, which is known in statuettes of a smaller size, among them another in Ohio (ibid., no. 149) and the gilt bronze in the Herzog Anton Ulrich-Museum, Brunswick, which was one of the most exquisite objects in the Giambologna exhibition of 1978 (C. Avery and A. Radcliffe (eds.), Giambologna, 1529-1608: Sculptor to the Medici (Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1978), 64, no. 5). In this latter variant the goddess's left foot is also on a step and a length of drapery is raised to her left breast in her left hand, but her right arm is drawn across her body and her head is turned to her right shoulder. This pose would seem to derive from the sculptor's group of Florence Victorious over Pisa (of 1565-70) but with the female nude reversed and deprived of an abject enemy. Its complex, continuously winding rhythm has an irresistible appeal, but as narrative the other versions are more enticing providing a glimpse of beauty, intimately occupied, unconscious of our admiration. Narrative is reintroduced into the sinuous variant, however, by the addition of an infant whose squalling supplies the pretext for her turned head (as in the bronze in the Bayerisches Nationalmuseum, Munich-Avery and Radcliffe, op. cit. 66, no. 9). 

It is clear that elegant variations on these bronze statuettes were being devised by other sculptors within Giambologna's own lifetime, among them the 'L.P.' whose initials appear, with the date 1579, on the exquisite boxwood statuette in the Museum für Kunsthandwerk, Frankfurt on Main (St. 12, Oskar und Ilse Mulert-Stiftung). A reduced variant with continuous drapery was modified to form a companion for an equally free variant on the antique Callipygian Venus (see Die Bronzen der fürstlichen Sammlung Liechtenstein (Liebieghaus, Frankfurt on Main, 1987), 166–7, nos. 10 and 11). 

Among versions close to the bronze in the Ashmolean Museum are the following: Wallace Collection, London (S. 110), Nelson-Atkins Museum, Kansas City, Missouri (31- 54-not listed by Wixom), Poldi Pezzoli Museum, Milan (Piccolo Museo Mario e Fosca Crespi, FC. 24/68), Fairhaven Collection, The National Trust, Anglesey Abbey, Cambridgeshire (Avery and Radcliffe, op. cit. 63, no. 2, not listed by Wixom), Menil Foundation, Houston, Texas (ibid. 63, no. 3, listed by Wixom as with Michael Hall Fine Art Inc.), Berlin-Dahlem, Staatliche Museum, inv. 1966 (W. Bode, Bildwerke des Kaiser-Friedrick Museums, ii: Bronzestatuetten, Busten und Gebrauchsgegenstände (Berlin and Leipzig, 1930), no. 156, pl. 50). But there are minute variations in the treatment both of the hair and of the base. 

@@40

Unknown foundry, unknown modeller 

After Giovanni Bologna (GIAMBOLOGNA) (1529-1608) 

40. Venus at the bath 

35.1 cms. (height from plate attached to plinth); 0.1 cms. (height of plate attached to plinth); 0.8 cms. (height of plinth); 6.2 cms. (length of projecting attachment) 

Bronze, fire-gilt. The gilding is worn in parts to reveal a natural dark brown patina. Minute traces of a ruddy varnish remain in the figure's right armpit, on her left calf, and on parts of the drapery. There is some verdigris in hollows of drapery. Hollow cast, in parts. There are joins on the upper part of the figure's right arm, on her right thigh, and below the knee of her left leg. There are patches above and below the join on the arm, on the figure's shoulder. The back is extensively patched. There is a firing crack in her left foot. The original plinth of the figure is extended to proper right by means of a separate piece of bronze-both are attached to a plate of bronze below. Screws in the back of the pedestal fix it to a block of metal, the projection of which, beneath the hollow base, is cased in wood. 

The bronze is attached to the Fitzwilliam Coin Cabinet (purchased 1949) for which see No. 35. 

The Venus is derived from one of Giambologna's most popular inventions, his Architecture, also known as Geometry. The life- size marble version of Architecture formerly in the Boboli Gardens is in the Bargello in Florence (C. Avery, Giambologna (Oxford, 1987), 100-4, pls. 95-6b). Of the bronze statuettes the finest is the signed version in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston (40.23; see C. Avery and A. Radcliffe (eds.), Giambologna, 1529-1608: Sculptor to the Medici (Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1978), 72, no. 17) and one in the Louvre which may well be the one described in the seventeenth century (when in Girardon's collection) as 'fait par Messer Jean Boulogne et reparé de Soucine'-'Soucine' being Antonio Susini (ibid.). Most casts of the figure appear to have been made from a slightly defective model, with a part of the set square, for instance, missing. Lists of versions are given by E. Dhanens, Jean Boulogne (Brussels, 1956), 165 n. 2, and W. Wixom, Renaissance Bronzes from Ohio Collections (Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, Ohio, 1975), no. 150. The Ashmolean's Venus, however, which has not been previously discussed in the literature on the sculptor, departs deliberately from its prototype. A large comb replaces the set square, protractor, and dividers in the right hand, and, instead of the drawing board supported behind the figure with her left arm, this figure has been given a shell. To accord with the theme of bath and toilet the hair, instead of being tied up in elaborate knots above the diadem, is gathered in a looser bun behind and falls freely over the shoulder. The necklaces are omitted and there are variations in the drapery, no longer intended for a smock, which falls over the figure's seat. 

The bronze was perhaps acquired, together with the pietra dura cabinet it crowns, in Florence, by Lord Malton (later 2nd marquis of Rockingham) in the late 1740s, but it would seem, from the improvised character of its base fixture, to have been adapted to serve this purpose. It may well have been gilded or at least regilded at the same time. There seems no good reason for a bathing Venus to preside over a collection of coins, but it is unlikely that Rockingham originally intended his cabinet to serve this purpose. If the bronze was acquired separately by Rockingham it might be the bronze Venus costing 8 guineas which was sent to him by Richard Hayward, the sculptor and dealer, on 22 April 1773 (and paid for 28 June)—no. 40 among the 'Vouchers for Works of Art', Wentworth Woodhouse Muniments, Sheffield City Library. 

@@41

Unknown foundry (perhaps French early nineteenth century)
After Giovanni Bologna (GIAMBOLOGNA) (1529-1608) 

41. Hercules and the Erymanthian Boar 

45 cms. (height to boar's back left trotter); 43.7 cms. (height to boar's front right trotter); 10.2 cms. (height of plinth); 24.2 cms. (length of plinth); 20.2 cms. (width of plinth) 

Bronze with a deep russet-gold varnish largely blackened, partially worn and scratched to reveal a natural pale tan patina. Hollow, probably lost-wax, cast. There is much tooling: in particular, the club is covered with punched marks in an undulating pattern. The figure is bolted to a mahogany plinth, toned and varnished to match the bronze. Rough platforms below the feet are just visible where they are attached to the plinth. 

Presented in memory of Otto Gutekunst by his widow in 1953. Registered on 15 July. The bronze had been bought in at Christie's, London, 25 June 1953, where it was lot 11 (already with its present plinth). 

The group, representing the fourth labour of Hercules, was cast in silver from a model by Giambologna, as one of a series of six groups commissioned by the Grand Duke Francesco I de' Medici for the Tribuna in the Uffizi. The casting of this group by Michele Mazzafirri took place in 1589, but the model might have been made some years previously, for work began on the commission in 1576. The earliest bronze version to be documented is the example in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna (5846), which is recorded in the inventory of the Kunstkammer of the Emperor Rudolf II compiled between 1607 and 1611 (see C. Avery and A. Radcliffe (eds.), Giambologna, 1529-1608: Sculptor to the Medici (Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1978), 122-3, for the series generally, and 126, no. 79 for this model; see also C. Avery, Giambologna (Oxford, 1987), 141-5, for the series). The version in Vienna is the only one in which the hair of the hero is bound with a fillet; it is also of higher quality than any other. 

Far more bronze versions of this group exist than of any of the other groups originally in the Tribuna: it is hard to believe that this reflects especial esteem for the model, which possesses rather less of either grace or drama than many of the others. The Annual Report for 1953 mentions that six other versions are recorded. This is an underestimate. W. Bode illustrated one in his Italian Bronze Statuettes of the Renaissance (London, 1907-12), iii, pl. CXCVII (private collection, Milan); another was illustrated by Planiscig in his Piccoli bronzi italiani del Rinascimento (Milan, 1930), pl. XI, no. 17; one was sold with the Castiglioni Collection in Vienna on 25 November 1925. There are versions in the Museo Nazionale di Capodimonte, Naples (10785; Avery and Radcliffe, op. cit. 125, no. 78); the Metropolitan Museum, New York (1982-60-100, published by J. D. Draper in The Jack and Belle Linsky Collection in the Metropolitan Museum of Art (New York, 1984), 154, no. 69); the National Gallery of Art, Washington (1942-9-121); the Museo del Castello Sforzesco, Milan; the Museo Nazionale of the Bargello, Florence; the Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore (54.679); the Wallace Collection, London (S. 125). 

With the exception of the version in Naples which is a reproduction made in the late nineteenth century and that at Baltimore which has exceptionally precise tooling and is attached to an irregular-shaped bronze base, all these museum versions resemble each other very closely. Details of modelling (for example, the treatment of veins on the hero's left hand) and finishing (for example, the punching on the bark of the club) are identical and the only obvious differences are the curls of the boar's tail, which is easily bent out of place, and in the colour of the bronze, which, however, always shows evidence of an original warm varnish. These versions are generally catalogued as Florentine and seventeenth century, but in no case is there a provenance to prove that they were made before the last century. They do resemble very closely a version, one of a set of four of these Labours, from Wentworth Woodhouse, sold at Christie's, London, 15 July 1986, lot 47, and catalogued as likely to have been one of the bronzes by Giambologna acquired by Lord Malton (later 2nd marquis of Rockingham) in Florence in the late 1740s (see his letter to his father of 1 September 1749, Wentworth Woodhouse Muniments, M2). However, the very careful and full inventories of Rockingham's collection do not list the group. A version of the bronze which also closely resembled the casts under discussion was sold at Sotheby's, London, 11 December 1986, lot 72. It was possible to examine this closely, and it turned out to be a sand-cast assembled out of four elements (the boar together with the hero's left arm; the club; the hero's right arm; the hero's torso and legs) in a manner typical of Parisian foundries in the last century. The nature of the varnish would make the joins hard to detect in many of the examples cited above. 

@@42

Unknown foundry (perhaps English carly nineteenth century) After Giovanni Bologna (GIAMBOLOGNA) (1529-1608) 

42. Candlestand in the form of Mercury flying 

24.8 cms. (height); 1.3 cms. (height of marble base) 

The body of Mercury is of bronze with a green varnish worn to expose a natural brown patina where handled on the legs. Hollow, presumably lost-wax, cast. Helmet, the two wings attached to it, the wings attached to the ankles, and the head of the wind god, all of bronze fire-gilt, and each separately cast and attached. The band across the chest and loop of flying drapery of pliable metal (probably copper) fire-gilt. Mounted on a base in the form of a disc of white Carrara marble. 

Purchased from the dealer David Carritt in 1960 for £75. The transaction took place around 7 March when Carritt wrote to assure Parker of his confidence that the gilt accessories were original. Registered 5 May 1960. 

Giambologna was commissioned by the Grand Duke Cosimo I de' Medici in the second half of 1564 to execute a flying Mercury the size of a 'fanciullo di 15 anni' as one of several diplomatic presents for the Emperor Maximillian II. Large and small versions were made over the next twenty years, status and dating of which are much debated (a variety of opinions may be extracted from C. Avery and A. Radcliffe (eds.), Giambologna, 1529-1608: Sculptor to the Medici (Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1978), 83-8, nos. 33-5). The figure was much copied throughout subsequent centuries. By the late eighteenth century it was adapted to carry candles. Among the sketches and reports from Rome sent by Charles Heathcote Tatham to the architect Henry Holland in 1795 are two designs for candelabra by Giuseppe Boschi (see No. 15), one of which is a 'Mercury of Florence' in fact Giambologna's famous figure-balanced on a ball of 'oriental alabaster' placed upon a circular pedestal of 'red porphyry' with 'bronze mouldings gilt in french gold'. There is a short branch in his raised right hand and a larger one in his left. As a pair Boschi proposed 'the celebrated Antique fame in the Collection of the Empress of Russia' with the candles arising from the basket she holds aloft. Each was 2 feet 10 inches high including pedestals and the pair was priced at $250 Roman scudis equal to ab'. £58 English'. A pair of Mercurys but slightly larger, with different pedestals and supporting several branches of Empire design, is to be found in the Royal Palace, Madrid. The Ashmolean's bronze is inferior in execution and design. The folds of the drapery are simply pressed ridges. The little wings look stuck on to the helmet and ankles with no idea of growing from them, the features of the face are inarticulate, the extremities are inexpressive, and there is no life in the modelling of the torso, even below the crude varnish. It may well be English and of about 1800 as Parker suggested (Annual Report (1960), 66) and if so perhaps a poor imitation of a bronze by Boschi. 

@@43

After Giovanni Bologna (GIAMBOLOGNA) (1529-1608) 

43. Rape of the Sabines 

29.9 cms. (height); 26.5 cms. (width) 

Verde di Prato (Tuscan serpentine). Broken into eight principal, and two smaller, pieces. Some pieces missing. 

Found in fragments in the basement in 1979. Provenance unknown. 

This is a very poor copy, probably made in this century, Giambologna's relief of the Rape of the Sabines incorporated on the base of the marble group of that subject which he was carving in October of 1581 and which was unveiled in the Loggia dei Lanzi on 14 January 1583. A smaller version (9 x 12 cms.) of similar quality and also in this material is in the reserve collection of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston (52. 1942). 

@@44

Unknown foundry and unknown modeller (perhaps Francesco Fanelli) 

Probably after Giovanni Bologna (GIAMBOLOGNA) (1529-1608) 

44. Seated peasant boy with bagpipes 

9.1 cms. (height) 

Bronze with a pale tan natural patina rubbed to a brassy yellow on salient points. Hollow, lost-wax, cast. Mounted on a block of serpentine. Inscribed in black ink '1460.1888'. 

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum on 19 August 1887, given in 1888. B. 416 in his catalogues. 'Bought at Geneva' according to his notebook catalogue, presumably after 1857 when the preliminary catalogue, in which it is not included, was compiled. Fortnum noted that the bronze was gilt. C. F. Bell added a note that this was paint (perhaps gilding on a gesso coating) which he had cleaned off in 1902. 

Among the group of bronzes sent from the Grand Duke Cosimo II de' Medici as a diplomatic present to Henry prince of Wales in 1611 was 'uno Pastore che suona la piva' (K. Watson and C. Avery, 'Medici and Stuart: A Grand Ducal Gift of "Giovanni Bologna" Bronzes for Henry Prince of Wales (1612)', Burlington Magazine, 115 (1973), 505). Statuettes of the type in the Ashmolean have been plausibly associated with this 'pastore'. They must be related to another only slightly less common statuette of a rural figure, a peasant or shepherd leaning cross-legged on a staff. Next on the list of bronzes sent to England in 1611 was 'uno Pastore che s'appoggia a uno bastone'. These two figures are also found together as a pair in the Museo di Palazzo Venezia, Rome (Collezione Auriti, Museo di Palazzo Venezia (Rome, 1964), pls. 37 and 38; at present displayed in the fifth case to the right of the second room of bronzes), and look much as if they were designed together--the standing figure listening to the seated performer. A 'Villano' described as leaning on a staff and a 'pastore' appear together on a list (discovered in the Florentine archives by James Holderbaum) of silver statuettes, evidently recently made, which were loaned in 1601 from the Galleria of the grand duke to Antonio Susini, Giambologna's most talented Florentine pupil, presumably so that further versions of them could be cast. The models of these silver figures are likely to have been by Giambologna: in any case we know from the inventory of Benedetto Gondi's collection in Florence in 1609 that Giambologna made at least one Pastorino (C. Avery and A. Radcliffe (eds.), Giambologna, 1529-1608: Sculptor to the Medici (Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1978), 164-5, nos. 135-7). 

Statuettes of the seated bagpiper fall into two categories. There are rough casts, such as the Ashmolean's, all with minor variations and often with losses (thus, the example in the Wernher Collection at Luton Hoo, Bedfordshire (no. 476), has no mouthpiece, and the horn is lost below the figure's left hand, the head is fitted further back, and the hat is of slightly different shape). The most familiar and least crude of these rough casts was the one published by Bode (Italian Bronze Statuettes of the Renaissance (London, 1907-12), ii, CCV), today in the Staatliche Museen, Berlin-Dahlem (2242, in reserve, see Ex aere solido: Bronzen von der Antike bis zur Gegenwart. Eine Ausstellung der Stiftung preußischer Kulturbesitz Berlin (Berlin, 1983), 148, no. 79, entry by M.-T. Suermann). It has a certain amount of texturing on bag, trunk, and drapery. Of far finer finish, and plausibly associated with the workshop of Antonio Susini, are the statuettes, of approximately identical size, in Palazzo Venezia (already mentioned), in the Bargello (no. 464, formerly in the Uffizi, gilt), in the Victoria and Albert Museum (A. 59- 1956), in the Fitzwilliam Museum (M. 2-1961), and in the Liechtenstein Collection (formerly Bardini Collection; Die Bronzen der fürstlichen Sammlung Liechtenstein (Liebieghaus, Frankfurt, 1987, no. 22) and lot 83, Sotheby's, London, 10 April 1975. Of these the Fitzwilliam version has most detailing (stops in the pipe, texture on the sack, fringes to the clothes) and it, together with the Sotheby's 1975 version, includes a feather in the hat which is reproduced in some of the rougher versions. 

The rougher versions are not merely inferior derivatives but have considerable character. Their authorship was not discussed in the Giambologna exhibition catalogue (Avery and Radcliffe, op. cit. above). They resemble the bronzes by Fanelli (see Nos. 491, 492), who might have had access either to the version in the English Royal Collection or to one in his native Florence. His work on this scale has the same roughness, his casts are of very similar weight, and his metal is often close in colour. 

Fortnum in his notebook catalogue observed simply that the bronze was 'Italian XVIth Century'. In his large catalogue he wrote, 'This doubtless represents one of the "pifferari" (of the period) who still make their music at Roman and other shrines at "natale" and may probably be of Roman workmanship'. C. F. Bell, annotating this, noted the superior quality of the Liechtenstein version and also that Bode had proposed a connection with Giambologna, speculating, because of their 'Netherlandish character' that they were early works by him (Renaissance Bronzes in the Pierpont Morgan Collection (London, 1908), p. xxii). There may well have been a tradition of small statuettes of low-life subjects north of the Alps before there was one in Italy. A boxwood figure of a player standing with crossed legs attributed to the Nuremberg school and dated c.1600 in the Cleveland Museum of Art may be representative of such a tradition. This figure is derived from a print by Dürer and Charles Avery has suggested that Dürer's prints were an inspiration for Giambologna as well (Giambologna (Oxford, 1987), 47, pls. 35 and 36). 

@@45

Perhaps Antonio Susini (active by 1580; d. 1624) 

Probably after Giovanni Bologna (GIAMBOLOGNA) (1529-1608) 

45. Pacing stallion, wearing a saddle-cloth 

23.2 cms. (height); 24.7 cms. (length); 13.8 cms. (height of wooden plinth); 28 cms. (length of plinth); 13.8 cms. (width of plinth) 

Bronze with a uniform dark brown-green patina. Hollow, lost-wax, cast. Tiny firing crack on the front standing leg. Tooled with great precision and highly polished. Fixed to a base of ebonized wood. 

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum in October 1894 and bequeathed 1899. No. 445 in his catalogues. No date of acquisition recorded but presumably after 1857 when the preliminary catalogue, in which it is not recorded, was compiled. 

A very similar horse, with the same action, saddle-cloth, and cropped mane and tail dressing, but somewhat larger (42 cms. in length), is included in the bronze relief of the Grand Duke Cosimo I's triumphant entry into Siena on the base of the statue of him by Giambologna erected in 1599 in the Piazza della Signoria, Florence. The horse in the colossal group which this base supports (cast 1592-3) is of a similar, but less neat, character, as Fortnum noted (although he missed the much closer connection with the horse in the relief). It has been conjectured that the model for the small bronze may have originated as an idea for the colossal horse which, when rejected, was retained in the relief and then cast separately as a statuette. The invention is, in any case, clearly associated with Giambologna or at least with his workshop. 

A cast such as this is a good example of the extraordinary quality of the work produced by members of that workshop, and in particular by Antonio Susini, in the decade or so following Giambologna's death. Other versions exist in the Bargello, Florence (golden red varnish, with an original oval bronze base), the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna (dark red-gold varnish), and the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute, Williamstown (dark patina similar to the Ashmolean's bronze, with a coat of arms engraved on the saddle-cloth). These three casts were exhibited together in the exhibition Giambologna, 1529-1608: Sculptor to the Medici at the Victoria and Albert Museum in 1978 (nos. 155, 156, 157). The compilers of that catalogue cite other versions in the Nationalmuseum, Stockholm; the Museo Arqueológico Nacional, Madrid; the Art Institute, Chicago, but not this example nor those in the Museum and Art Gallery, Kelvingrove, Glasgow (SMT 107) and in the Faringdon Collection at Buscot Park, Oxfordshire. Inferior later casts with minor variations (for instance in the tail and top knot) are also known (one was lot 114, Christie's, London, 5 December 1989). 

Fortnum observed of this 'highly finished & well modelled figure' that it was 'perhaps French, & by P. Dupetit circa 1768'. This was due to a similarity with a bronze at Windsor: however Fortnum's own notes on this subject reveal an uncharacteristic carelessness. Among his books preserved by the library of the Department of Western Art is a photographic album of the bronzes in the Royal Collection at Windsor. Accompanying this is a memorandum dated 21 May 1875, from which we see that Fortnum noted of one of the bronze horses in a corridor 'Horse same model, differing in details from mine'. This is in fact a statuette of the horse ridden by Cosimo on the monument itself. After it Fortnum wrote, 'signed on base P' DUPETIT. 1768'. But, as someone, perhaps Fortnum himself, subsequently observed, this name was in fact chiselled on the base of a similiar neighbouring equestrian statuette-as can indeed clearly be seen in the photographic album—and the memorandum is corrected by an arrow. The error reveals Fortnum's open mind about dating and also draws attention to the similar taste for a satin finish and precision detailing which prevailed in Paris in 1760 and Florence in 1610. It is not in fact at all unlikely that some of the bronze equestrian statuettes after Giambologna were cast in France in the eighteenth century. Having made this connection Fortnum seems to have retreated from it and he added 'if not from the atelier of Giovanni Bologna' in the large catalogue. The bronze is not likely to have had this uniform dark patina originally. 

@@46

Probably follower of Giovanni Bologna (GIAMBOLOGNA) (1529-1608) 

46. Venus removing a thorn from her foot; Cupid by her side 

12.5 cms. (height including integral plinth); 4.45 cms. (length of integral plinth); 3.3 cms. (width of integral plinth); 6 cms. (height of porphyry base); 7.8 cms. (length of porphyry base); 6.5 cms. (width of porphyry base) 

Bronze with a palc, slightly olive, tan natural patina and considerable remains of a ruddy gold varnish (well preserved on Venus' proper right thigh and on the neck of Cupid). Hollow, lost-wax, cast. There are many casting flaws: the plinth is of uneven thickness and of an irregular shape with an untidy aperture below the tripod stool; the end of part of the drapery beside Cupid has been broken off; there is a crack at the contact of Venus' thigh with the drapery. There is much evidence of filing. A rectangular patch in Venus' left buttock may be discerned in a good light. 'B. /426. /' is painted in white on the scroll foot of the stool behind the figures. The group is mounted on a block of porphyry with a moulded plinth of ebonized wood. 

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888 and given later in the same year. B. 426 in his catalogues. 'Bought 1867', according to the large catalogue-in Florence for £4 from the dealer 'Dr Foresi' (for whom see the introduction), according to his notebook catalogue. Fortnum had the bronze mounted on a yellow marble base. C. F. Bell exchanged this for the porphyry base as he noted in pencil in Fortnum's large catalogue. 

Fortnum described this bronze in his notebook catalogue as 'an elongated figure with a mannered grace after the manner of Gian Bologna', and in his large catalogue as 'an elongated figure with a mannered grace characteristic of the later period of John of Bologna's followers or fabrique'. According to an annotation in Fortnum's larger catalogue, Bode regarded it as by Giambologna himself, but most scholars today would prefer Fortnum's more cautious formulation. The pose of Venus certainly seems to depend upon some of Giambologna's inventions involving women with raised knees (most notably the marble Florence Triumphant over Pisa of about 1570 in the Bargello, Florence) and the pose of the Cupid is strongly reminiscent of the continuous spiral that Giambologna devised for the Apollo in the Studiolo, although it also recalls inventions of Michelangelo and Raphael. The group may be associated with several other small bronzes of nude women in elegant attitudes ostensibly prompted by the activities of the toilet: above all, the Venus standing on one foot unfastening her sandal (Ca d'Oro, Venice, D. br. 60) who has a very similar hair dressing and is the same size; also the nymph cutting her nails (No. 326). 

The finest surviving example of this group of Venus and Cupid is certainly that in the Metropolitan Museum, New York (32.100.183; C. Avery and A. Radcliffe (eds.), Giambologna, 1529-1608: Sculptor to the Medici (Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1978), 67, no. 10), which is more detailed and more cleanly finished than the Ashmolean group, with a similar, but better preserved, ruddy gold varnish. 

Among Giambologna's followers Antonio Susini seems l to be responsible for this group. Anthony Radcliffe has pointed out the similarity between the Cupid in the New York version and the Child in the larger group of the Virgin and Child in the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Texas, which seems to correspond to a group documented as an original work by this sculptor (ibid.). It is noteworthy that the type of stool that Venus rests her foot upon is much the same as that upon which David sits in the group signed by another member of the Susini family, Giovanni Francesco (Die Bronzen der fürstlichen Sammlung Liechtenstein (Liebieghaus, Frankfurt, 1987), 196-7, no. 30). 

The Ashmolean's bronze must be supposed to be a later cast, having much the same relation to the New York version as the Ashmolean's little bagpiper (No. 44) has to the neater casts of that figure. It should, however, be distinguished from other much rougher casts of the some group in which there is a small mound under the feet of the stool, the scrolled feet of the stool are different, and the aperture between Cupid's bent left and straight right leg is smaller or non-existent. These tend to be a little larger in size (usually 13.7 cms. high): examples are in the Victoria and Albert Museum (A. 150- 1910), the Museo Schifanoia, Ferrara (R. Varese, Placchette e bronzi nelle Civiche Collezioni (Ferrara, 1975), 144, no. 132), and the collection of Sir Brinsley Ford (where there is also a version in red wax); one such was also recently for sale in London (lot 75, Sotheby's, London, 20 April 1989). 

In addition there are versions of the Venus without the Cupid in the Musée des Beaux-Arts, Dijon (see Avery and Radcliffe, op. cit., no. 8), the Staatliche Museen, Berlin- Dahlem (1967), and the Liebieghaus, Frankfurt (St. P. 378). Of these the Dijon version is of a quality comparable with the New York group. 

The composition seems to have been familiar all over Europe by the early seventeenth century and was employed by the Dutch goldsmith Thomas Bogaert as the supporter of one of a pair of silver gilt salts made in Utrecht in 1624 (Sotheby's, Geneva, 14 November 1988, lot 18). An ivory version of the group considered to be Italian and of the second half of the seventeenth century is in the Bayerisches Nationalmuseum (R. 4732). 

@@47

47. Self-portrait wearing the Cross of the Knights of Christ 

13.5 cms. (height) 

Wax covered with discoloured paint, flaking to reveal a battered surface. Chips at the lips reveal the original red of the wax. There are cracks in the bust across the proper left side. The bust is crudely reinforced with plaster of Paris in the hollow behind. On the pine base is an old paper label inscribed 'B FAC/ A. G. B. Russell'-from an exhibition at the Burlington Fine Arts Club. Another larger and older one inscribed in ink in an Italian hand, perhaps of the eighteenth or early nineteenth century, 'modello originale di Gio Bologna Cos..... Primo' is pasted on the front face. 

Bequeathed by A. G. B. Russell KCVO, JP, Clarenceux King of Arms, who died in 1956. No. 19 on the receipt of works in the bequest collected from Mrs Stedall on 8 October 1958. Acquired by Russell before 1913 when exhibited at the Burlington Fine Arts Club. 

The old label on the bust would seem to suggest that the Grand Duke Cosimo I was believed to be the subject. This might be a mistake from an earlier label describing Giambologna as Cosimo's court sculptor. E. Dhanens Jean Boulogne (Brussels, 1956), 108-9) accepted that Cosimo was the sitter and supposed that the cross hanging on his chest was that of the Order of S. Stefano, founded by Cosimo in 1561 with himself as Grand Master. H. Keutner, reviewing Dhanens (Kunstchronik, II (1958), 326), pointed out that the Cross is not the Maltese Cross of that order, but the Cross worn by the Knights of Christ, an order to which Giambologna was admitted in 1599, and remarked justly that the person depicted resembled Giambologna in the drawing by Goltzius of 1591 (Teylers Museum, Haarlem). He speculated that the portrait might be by Pietro Tacca. There is also a close relationship with the small bronze busts convincingly proposed by Charles Avery as portraits of Giambologna of which there are examples in the Rijksmuseum and the Musée des Beaux-Arts, Dijon, and in the collection of Sir John Pope-Hennessy (C. Avery and A. Radcliffe (eds.), Giambologna, 1529-1608: Sculptor to the Medici (Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1978), 168, nos. 143-5). 

In 1964 the Ashmolean's bust was displayed with a label attributing it to Leone Leoni and suggesting that the sitter was Philip II of Spain. Pope-Hennessy, then Keeper of Sculpture at the Victoria and Albert Museum, urged that this should be changed. An association with Giambologna obviously exists but 'the poor state of preservation does not permit a positive identification of its author' (C. Avery, Giambologna (Oxford, 1987), 277, no. 203). 

@@48

Giuseppe Domenico GRANDI (1843-94) 

48. Alessandro Volta 

66 cms. (height including integral plinth) 

Bronze with a dark green and brown patina and a slightly granular surface. Hollow, lost-wax, cast. In the sloping moulding at the front of the plinth 'A VOLTA' (with the 'A' and 'V' interlaced) is incised in the model (with conspicuous burr) and to proper left side of the same moulding in smaller letters ‘GRANDI' is chiselled in the metal. 

Sotheby's, London, 21-2 March 1985, lot 296 bought (hammer price £900) by Anthony Roth. Bought for £1,800 from Mr Roth in January 1986 with funds from the Madan Bequest. 

Conte Alessandro Volta (1745-1827) was one of the greatest scientists of his age. The volt is named after him. The bronze, which perhaps records a sketch for a projected public statue, probably dates from the 1870s. Carlo Bozzi (in ‘Artisti contemporanei: Guiseppe Grandi', Emporium, 16 (1902), 91-108) refers to 'Il Volta pure così pieno di carattere e di vita, che vale un monumento e chi si vuole sia stato improvvisato nel marmo' and reproduces a statuette presumably in clay or plaster corresponding to this bronze but with more obvious tooling in the folds of the coat (ibid. 99). R. Boccardi ('Giuseppe Grandi', Rassegna d'arte, 21 (1921), 201) refers to a 'statuina in marmo' and reproduces the same work. No version in any material other than bronze, and no other version in bronze, has been traced, but the figure was reproduced as no. 681, pl. c in the catalogue of the 'Manifattura di Signa. Terre cotte aristiche e decorative' which had show-rooms c.1910 in Rome, Turin, and Paris. 

Grandi was perhaps influenced by the brief popular biography by Luigi Alfonso Girardi (I contemporanei italiani: Galleria Nazionale del Secolo XIX (Turin, 1861)) in which the solitary walks which Volta took on the city walls of Pavia in the last decade of his life and the gravity of his deportment, the artless neglect of his dress, and his broad, albeit corrugated, brow are memorably sketched. He must also have consulted the marble bust by G. B. Comolli dated 1828 (Museo d'Arte Moderna, Milan). If there was a plan for a statue to him (and it was a period in which statues of almost every eminent Italian, ancient and modern, were projected) then it would have been likely to have been for Pavia, where Volta became professor in 1775, rather than for his native Como where there was already a statue of him by Pompeo Marchesi. 

Grandi first attracted public notice by winning the competition for the monument to Cesare Beccaria (Palazzo di Giustizia, Milan) signed in 1870 and unveiled on 19 March 1871 in Palazzo di Giustizia, Milan (the marble figure is now in the Galleria d'Arte Moderna, Milan, no. 1111, and has been replaced by a bronze replica). The bozzetto for the figure was cast in bronze (examples are in the Museo Nazionale d'Arte Moderna in Rome and the Galleria d'Arte Moderna, Milan) and so too was his sketch, dated 1880, for a statue of Marshal Ney. These are both smaller than the bronze of Volta, but of similar patina and finish and with a similar plinth. The Ney would seem to have been cast in a large edition-- versions are in the Galleria d'Arte Moderna, Milan, in the David Daniels Collection (exhibited Minneapolis, 1979–80, no. 63, previously Shepherd Gallery, New York, 1974), and two have appeared in recent years with London dealers. All three statuettes, but especially that of Volta, possess a dynamic plasticity and an exaggerated, almost grotesque, characterization suggestive of developments in France of which Grandi knew nothing: Daumier's earlier Ratapoil (No. 274) and Rodin's later Balzac (No. 309) both come to mind. 

In 1881 Grandi won the competition for the huge bronze monument in Milan commemorating the Cinque giornate the popular uprising of 19-23 March 1848 against Austrian rule-for which he completed the half-size model in 1886 and which was only just completed in bronze when he died. To this work, perhaps the most powerful and original public monument of the second half of the nineteenth century in Europe, he devoted most of the last fourteen years of his life For the influence of his ornamental designs and novel ideas for bust sculpture which he had pioneered in the 1870s see No. 83. The Ashmolean's statuette of Volta is the only work by Grandi on public view in this country with the exception of the extraordinary Kaled, al mattino del conflitto di Lara (Il paggio di Lara) of 1872 which stands in a high niche on the street front of no. 193 Fleet Street in London-'una meraviglia di vita e insieme un magnifico, secentistico, esempio di modellatura spigliata e di insieme decorativo, ma che, esposto a Brera [in 1873], ancora peggio che incomplet procurò al Grandi tali amarezze' (Bozzi, op. cit. 98). 

@@49

Antonio GUSELA (dates unknown) 

49. Saturn devouring an infant boy 

21.5 cms. (height including integral pedestal); 4 cms. (height of integral pedestal); 6.9 cms. (length of pedestal); 4.1 cms. (width of pedestal); 2.8 cms. (height of modern plinth) 

Probably lime, highly varnished-the varnish has given the wood a redder appearance than normal and has darkened in the hollows. The group is carved from two pieces. The vertical join may be discerned down the check of Saturn and the sides of his body: his right leg and left arm are fashioned for the most part from one block and left leg and right arm from the other. There is a slight split in the lower left leg. 'Antonio Gusela/Sculto." de Belluno' is written in black ink in an old hand in a hollowed-out area behind the pedestal. The long 's' is easily read as a 'g' or 'z' and the next letter could be a 'z', 'a', or 'e'. 'M 232' is written in pen with black ink on the back of the hour-glass and on the base of the pedestal to proper right. The group has been mounted on an unmoulded mahogany plinth. 

Bequeathed by J. Francis Mallett who died 7 January 1947. Received in the Museum during the last week of May 1947. No. 232 in the inventory of his bequest (as a work by 'Gugela'). Valued by Mallett at £10. Acquired by him from 'Christie 1937'. 

The group looks as if it might be derived from a bronze statuette, but it is obviously not designed to be seen from behind. The shape of the pedestal suggests that it must date from the first half of the seventeenth century or later (compare the socle of Dieussart's bust of Prince Rupert, No. 471), but it could certainly be an eighteenth-century work. The little brackets incorporated into the front of the pedestal to accommodate the projections of the feet are an unusual feature. Belluno, in the Venetian Alps, was noted for its native wood-carving. It was the birthplace of Andrea Brustolon (1662–1732), much of whose work may be seen there. Among Brustolon's pupils listed in a document of 1722 is Giovanni Battista Alchini known as Gusela. This Gusela was noted as a carver of frames. Among works by him are the Madonna del Carmine in the church of Loreto in Belluno and a crucifix in the collection of the Avvocato A. da Borso also in that city (G. Biasuz and M. G. Buttignon, Andrea Brustolon (Padua, 1969), 14, 307 n.). Antonio Gusela is likely to have belonged to the same family. 

Dr John Brazier who identified the wood as probably lime noted that it might be a fruit wood. It has previously been described as box. 

@@50

Probably Parisian foundry of second half of the nineteenth century 

After François LADATTE (Francesco Ladetti or Ladetto) (1706-87) 

50. Judith with the head of Holofernes 

39.7 cms. (height); 17.6 cms. (length of integral plinth); 15.6 cms. (width of plinth excluding projection of sandal) 

Bronze with a ruddy brown artificial patina simulating the natural patina of a coppery bronze, worn to reveal a yellow metal in some salient areas, notably the chin, nose, and hair. Hollow, sand, cast in three pieces, the sword with the drapery caught up by it forming one subsidiary unit and the heroine's right arm another. To proper right of the plinth on the side '2480' is stamped in the metal. 

Bought in Paris in 1965, apparently on 14 September, from the Heim Gallery. 

Ladatte exhibited a terracotta of Judith at the Paris salon in 1738 (no. 159) and another in the following year. The latter was the model for his marble version of 1741 (Musée du Louvre) which was his morceau de réception at the French Academy where he was nominated professor in 1743, the year before he returned to his native Turin. The terracotta, 84 cms. high, acquired 1981 by the Musées d'Art et d'Histoire de Chambéry may be the statuette of 1739. A gilded terracotta in the Museo Civico, Turin (pl. 13 of L. Mallè, "Traccia per Francesco Ladatte, scultore torinese', in D. Fraser, H. Hibbard, and M. Levine (eds.), Essays in the History of Art Presented to Rudolf Wittkower (London, 1967), 242–54), which differs in many minor details-the treatment of the belt, the drapery over the sword hilt, the heroine's hand in the hair of her victim's head-may reflect another model, and may even be by Ladatte himself if the loss of sharpness is explained by the ground covering the terracotta preparatory to the gilding. The bronze in the Ashmolean is a reduced copy of the marble differing in that the sword hilt is not curved downwards in the bronze (someone may have supposed that the curve was due to a clay model sagging and have corrected it) and in many small details, the texturing of the sash (far more subtle in the marble) and the treatment of the eyes (deeply drilled in the marble), for instance. Ian Robertson bought it as a work by Ladatte himself, who was indeed noted for his bronzes, but the type of cast and its assembly are typical of Parisian foundries in the last century and the work is mechanical, without any of the vitality of either modelling or tooling that is found in works by Ladatte himself, such as the clock surrounded by allegories of Time and military glory, or the harpy furniture mounts and the candelabra in the Palazzo Reale, Turin (reproduced in A. N. Cellini, La scultura del settecento (Turin, 1982), 206, 217, 220). Ladatte is a sculptor little represented in British collections but the ormolu mounts on the fantastic mother- of-pearl stand in the Victoria and Albert Museum (W. 34- 1946) attributed to Pietro Piffetti can be attributed to him on account of the helmet revealing its quiited lining which is part of the trophy nestling in the cross stretchers-an identical helmet lining is found in the Judith and in the terracotta group of the Triumph of Virtue of 1744 (Musée des Arts Décoratifs, Paris, inv. 6313).

@@TO HERE

@@51

@@52

Perhaps by Frant-ois I,ADATTF'. (Frciliccsi.o I,tidctti or

Ladetto) (1706-87)

51 and 52. Pair of sphinxes

26.5 cms. (height of 'Summer', 51); 25.5 cms. (height of .Wiiitcr',

52)

Brolly,e wit-h a blai.kcnL.d rildd}' \'dmish \''om in a rcw p<irts to i'xpttsi'

the yellow metal. Hea\'y, Iost-\'/lax, c:ists. There <ire holes drillL'd

through the bLick lcfr lcgr and the- front left li'g. There dri- filing

crai'ks on the rump under the tdi] of.thi' sphim with its li'ft ft>rc

paw raised (51) and in the tail orthc other. Moiinted, beft>re ldli'

]98z with inodem bolts on disi'olo'Ired whitc imrblc bases, cut

from a single piece of'marblc', obviously not origiml. This \\.a''

replaced by dark mdhogany moul(ied plinths mtidi. b}J R.'}' An't}' t)f

thc. Must.urn workshop. Plai'ecl on displa}' in thc' Chambers Hall

Room in 198z prcviously in rcscrvc.

Given by G. Rcitlinger,1972, I)ut only ri.cej\tetl b\' the Miise'mi

after thc' firc' ill his ht>mc in 1978 (si'e No.13).

According to the donttr, thi'sc were t>rigimll}J fire-dogs (which

may well bc. i'orrect) and solid (which is incorri'ct) aiid the

heads are portraits 'reprcscnting, according t(> 'Sir Francis

Watson, Madame Paraberc, Mistress of the Rcgcn[ Philippc

Duke of Orleans, after the models made b}' Jacqucs Cafficri

e1715-20 for Chatcau de Champs'. The idea that the royal

French mistresses+)r English actresses-of the cightccnth

century were depicted in sphinxes in bronze, and porcelain

was a very popular one in the early part of this ccntiiry,

probably strengthened by the pastiche sphinxes made in the

late ninctcenth century in terracotta and plaster incorporating

heads of Madame du Barry and so on (striking cxamplcs were

sold Christic's, London, 3 April 1985, lot 79). Thcrc 'sc€ms

no good reason at all to bclievc that there was any pt>rtralt

clcmcnt ill thcsc brttnzcs. On tlic t>thcr haiid, the idea (also

credited to 'Sir Francis Watson) that the two sphillxes may be

coiinccted with tw(t of the Scasolis, ancl may possibly belong

to a scrics of'four, is siircly ct>rrect: in any case one sphinx

(51) \vears a rosi'-trimmed dres's (for Simimcr) and the other

(52) a fur-edged pclissc (for Winter).

Although thcrc is something French about the tjmamental

character tjf thcsc sphinxes ncithcr the type of heavy cast nor

the colour has convinced experts that they arc French. They

arc rcminisccnt of the ornamental work of Francesco Ladatte

at the court of Turiii. Ill the gilt broiizc harpies which hc

'supplied for [hi-furni[iirc madc by Pifctti for the quecii's

Gabinctto di Toletta in the r'ala7.zo Rcalc 'soon bcft>rc his

sec(]nd stay in Paris which lasted froin I 734 until 1744 (see

M. Bcmardi, B¢7'occo PG.c7%t)7?}cfc (Tiirin,1964),130) and in

the allcgorics 'surrounding the great clt]ck in the Palazzo

Realc sigiied in 1775 (ibid. 49) we find the 'samc taste for

clcgant fcmalc hedds, fnnged drapcnes, strung pcarls, brocade

with relief patterns and a tcxtured grt)imd, and the sanic

sinuous oiitlinc broken by thi' projection of floral crowns and

ribbons.

Jennifer Montagu, to whom I owe the suggestion that the

sphinxes might be from Turin, pointed out that they probably

supported shields with their raised paws. For other sphinx

firc'dogs with shields sci' the pair in the Baycrischcs

Nationalmuseum, Munich (24-106; H. Ottomeyer and P.

Pr6schel, Vc7g'gro/dcfc 87o73zc72 (Munich,1986), i. 71,

no.L10.10) and the pair signed by Eugenc Piat sold 11 June

1989 at the H6tcl dcs Vcntes, Troyes (G'¢zc#c dc /'Hfi}G/

J)7o#ot, 2 June 1989).


@@53

Perhaps by Picrrc I,F,GROS 11 (16661719)

53. Bust portrait of a cardinal

43.5 cms. (height, excluding soi'Ie); 17 4 cms. (length of' base of'

soclc); 15.8 cms. (width of base of soclc); 11.5 cms. (height of

soclc)

Carrara marble. The foremost curl on the proper right-haiid side

has been broken off (the point where it touches the collar remains).

Thcrc are some rusty stains natural to the marble (most ob\Jious in

the cap), also 'some grey stains.

1'urchased for £550 by the National Art-Collections Fund, 1959,

and prescnted to the Ashmolean Museum. Said to come from the

I,azzaroni Collection, Nice. Sir Karl Parker first appcaled to the

Fund on 30 June 1959 when the sculptiire was on offer from Hans

Calmann for £800. I,ord Crawford, the C,hairman of the Fund,

replied from his castle in IJ.ife on 22 July that thc-Committee had

'felt a little imcertain ab(jii[ the Bustl)r, rather, I should say

whether we should pay up' because a bust of the same period 'more

certainly by Foggini' had bccn purchased by the Victoria and Albert

Museum for a mere £80, not many years before. In view of thi's lan

Robcrtson, writing on behalf of the Keeper, reported on I August

that Mr C,almann had lowered his price to £550. The grant for this

amount had bccn made by October.

On acquisition this bust was attributed to Giovanni-Battista

Fogrini (1652-1725), but Parker wrote in the Muscum's

A7z79#¢/ RcPo# (pp. 45nd) that 'an alternative and perhaps in

some ways more probable' attribution to Giuseppe Mazzuoli

(1644~1725) 'is worth considering in conjunction with the

problem of the sitter's identity'. He added that

No traditional or otherwise proven identification has been recorded;

and though it is safe. to reject the recent suggestion that the bust is

of Leopoldo dc' Medici, a glance at the scrics of engraved portraits

of cardinals of the period in question, published by Giovanni

Giacomo dei Rossi, is enough to show the almost baffling difficulty

of recognizing a subject with certalnry when conventional standards

of expression, attire, hair-style, 8cc. were so universally adopted.

With this it is impossible to disagrcc; but Parker continued to

clan that

Such features, however, as the unusually prominent nose, the widc-sct

cycs, the projecting lower lip, and the reflective, as it were

withdrawn, expression of the face, point to Paluzzo Paluzzi degli

Albcrtoni (1623-1698), who was raised to the purple in 1664 by

Alexander VII, but came into power chiefly after the election to the

Papaey of rhc octogenarian Clement X in 1670, and was by him

permitted to adopt the name of the Alticri, a family long associated

with the sculptor Maz7.uoli.

The comparisons upon which this identification depcnd are

not strong and the idea began, one must suspect, with a

desire to clinch the attribution to Mazzuoli. Oddly the

identification was accepted and because of i[ Klaus Lankhcit

proposed an attribution (made also by Hugh Honour) to

Lorenzo Mcrlini (in a letter of 28 March 1960 to Mr Taylor

and then in his I/o7'e7¢f¢.#¢.fc4/c B#7oc¢P/¢#¢.A (Munich, 1962),

185), noting that, according to an anonymous memoir and

autobiography, Merlini made a 'statiia al naturalc of Cardinal

Paluz2,o Paluzzi degli Albertoni' for Cardinal Ijorcnzt> Altieri

for the anticami'ra of his palace (Palazzo Alticri al Gcsi'i) in

Rome. Unfortiinately for this argument Mcrlini's portrait_

almost a half-figure rather than a bust (hence perhaps the term

'statua')-survives in Palazzo Alticri, and a terracotta for it

(labelled as by Lorenzo Ottoni) is in Palazzo Brasi'hi (see

A. N. Cellini, Ice fc#/£"7:¢ dc/ j'cz.cc»£o (Turin,1982),106-z

pl. 4) and it docs not re'semble the biist in the A'shmolean.

Morcover, cvcn Mcrlini's best work (such as the cffigy in the

monument in S. Giovanni dei Fiorentini, Rome, illustrated in

I+. Fjr\ggAss. Early Eighteenth~Centttry Sculpture in Rome

(Pennsylvania,1976), figs. 90-2) does not approach the

Ashmolcan portrait in vitality and his modelling was always

superior to his carving. It must be said also that none of the

portraiture by Foggini (>r Mazzu(>li has quite this sharpness

of carving or mobility of features or is so utterly lacking in

dull surfaces or gross handling. Lorenzo Ottoni's colnparab|c

portraiture in marble (for cxaniple, his bust of Pope Alexander

VIII in the Stadtische Galcric Liebicghaus, r'rankfurt on

Main) is not dissimilar but is cruder in its pursuit of effect,

espccial]y in the use made of the drill.

The sculptor working in the last decade of the scventccnth

century, and the first of the cightccnth, who was most capable

of work of this quality and character was Pierre I.€gros 11.

There are no comparable bust portraits by him but his

recumbent effigy of cardinal Girolamo Casanata, now partiauy

concealed by the German-language c(tnfessional in S. Giovanni

in Latcrano (1701-3), and his statue of the same man in the

Biblioteca Casanatense (1706-8), also in Rome, exhibit the

same exaggerated features, grotesque in any other artist's

work, combined with great vitality of cxprcssion, variety of

profile, and exquisite treatment of detail. (The carving of the

aged flesh of the neck at contact with the collar is remarkably

close in the statue and the Ashmolean's bust.)

As was poined out .\n the Anni4al Report Of the National

47t-(j'o//ccf£.o7" F#734 56 (1959), 30, the shape of the bust

strongly suggests that it was designed to bc si't in a circular

frame. The soclc iipon which it is now mounted cannot be

original.


@@54

After Antonio LOMBARDO (b. e1458; d.1516)

54. Portion of a frieze involving

vine tendrils and a cherub

33.5 cms. (height); 89 cms. (length)

Plaster of Paris, somewhat grey and abraded (perhaps from damp),

with some minor cracks and very irregular edges. Solid cast with no

apparent seams. Set in a thick pine frame, serving also as a tray.

Provenance unknown. Possibly a residue of the Ruskin School's

teaching aids.

The plaster cast is made from moulds taken of the frieze on

the base of the north face of the pedestals of the two pilasters

which form a triumphal arch distinguishing sanctuary from

choir within the raised Capclla Maggiorc of s. Maria dci

Miracoh in Venice. This church was crected between 1481

and 1489 under the direction of Pictro Ijombardo and his

sons Tullio and Antonio, the latter being credited with this

particular frieze, which develops, to cither side of the portion

reprcsented here, into female sea monsters upon whose tails

the putti are riding. The carving, which is among the most

skilled and charming of its period in northern Italy, was Tuch

admired by the close of the ninctcenth century. Companson

with the original reveals that the cherub's nose has been

damaged since this cast was made. The cast might have been

supplied by a firm such a Brucciani (scc Nos. 450, 580, 581),

in whose list, published before 1906, one finds a pilaster from

this church, but it is unlike their work in its solidity and

absence of seams and is no less likely to have been acquired

in Italy.

Ruskin, in the Vc»cf;¢# r»de# appended to the third

volunc of Tire Sfo#cf of Vc#;cc, considered the church of the

Miracoti to bc the 'most interesting and finished example in

Venice of the By7.antinc Renaissance, and olic of the most

important in Italy of the cinquecento style. All its sculptures

should be cxanined with great care, as the best possible

examples of a bad style .... Its grotesqucs are admirable

examples of the base Raphaelcsquc dcsign', hc continued,

and urged his rcadcrs to

Note especially the childrcn's heads tied ilp by the hair, in the lateral

sculptures at the top of the altar steps. A nide workman, who could

hardly have carved the head at all, might have. been allowed this or

any other mode of expressing discontent with his owii doings; but

the man who could carve a child'.s head so perfectly must have been

wanting in all human feeling, to cut if off, and tie it by the hair to

a vine leaf. Observe, in the Ducal Palace, though far ruder in skill,

the heads always G%c72.7e from the leaves, they are ne\'cr tied to them.

(E. T. Cook and A. Weddcrburn, 777e Wo7.feJ ofJo¢# R%f4;%, xi

(Ij]ndon, 1904), 393)

Given the specificity of this rcfercnce, and the fact that one

of his finest drawings given to the Ruskln School Collection

(Educatitinal Series 94) is of a portion of the 'samc frieze, one

must wonder whether this cast was not made at his instigation.

As with his architectural daguerrotypes, the commissioning of

casts is a relatively little-documcnted aspect of his work as a

historian and critic, but hc presented casts to the Architectural

Museum as early as 1854 (ibid. xii, p. Ixxi) and also gave

some, later in life, to the St George's Museum in Shcfficld

(ibid. xxx (1910),189). We know that he obtained casts in

Venice through his friend the Commendatore Giacomo Boni:

those Boni made of the Collcone monument apparently

disintegrated (ibid.). The church was extensively restored by

the Besarcl brothers for Count Roberto Boldri in 1887 and

that is a likely date for the making of casts on a commercial

basis. However, an identical plastercast, in store in the

Victoria and Albcrt Museum (1851432), was acquired in

1851.


@@55

8\, oi. .'t'ti.r Girol.llllo, Allrclio, or I,odovico ljoMBARDO

(.I|-ti\.I. 1550-80)

55. Triumph of Ariadne

28.I ciiis. (height); 38 i.ms. (length)

i}r„„ \\ith a chocolate brown Patina. Lost-wdx cast. A finng crack

'„ I,ppcr right-hami Side W.ith two Plugs inserted in thc' bronze, of

\\,h,L'h one is now missing. The surface much scratched, cspccia||y

.„ top left, perhaps ill cleaning. '8. / 687/ a. painted in white in

thii lou er nghtLhancl i-orncr.

I,L',,t in Octobcr 1874 by C. D. E. Fortnum and bcqucathed by him

in |899 a. 687 in his catalogues. 'Found in London among refuse

t,Ill iiic[al' rcscueci by the older Hat field, the bronzist, who cleaned

„ .'nd \'iclded it to me about 1856' (large catalogue). '1 found this

rille br;)ii/,c ill I.{)ltdo11. It had bccn rescued from the melting pot

h\r Hi[ficld the llronzist, by \\/'hom it was cleaned from the

''L-cumulatioii of' filth with Whil'h it was covered, and purchased by

mL'' (no[cbottk catalogue). It was not included in the preliminary

L'i[.i|oguc compilc'd by Fortnum in 1857 and so was probably not

icqiured bcf'ore 1858. It is likely to bc the 'Ariadne' in an MS

'.\|cm(trdndum of Pnces Paid' which i-ost him £4 in 1858. It was

c'hibited dt the Archaeological Institute in February 1861. In

Lttrtlium''' photograph it is displayed on a plain flat wooden

iiittiililiiig with a gold fillet at the sight edge. The present heavy

\'.'||iiit ['rdmc with gilt egg and dart and waterleaf mouldings was

prtlh.'til}' made by the Museum workshop in the 1950s to match

thi. tild Renaissdncc moulding f(]iind for the panel painted by Filippo

I,,pp,.

r'ttrtiiiim csteemed this relief very highly and expanded

iiiiii'ui.Ill}r upon its merits: a 'work of great beauty and interest;

thi. idmirablc treatment of the Satyrs, the calm grace of pose

diiil cxprcs'qion ill Ariadnc; the spirit of the antique well

''i''tained, but the best manner of the Renaissance equally

dppari.nt'. Hc rccogni7jed that it was a version of one of the

'\\.tt rclief's that adorn the Renaissance base made for the

''ntiqlii. bronzc st.'tue of a nude boy known as the Jdo/z."a

''hii'h wis in his da}' in the Uffi7j but is today in the Museo

\ri-hi.(tlt>gii'o in r'lt)rence, but hc did not appreciate that this

'tdtiii', bclic\Ji'd t>riginally to bc a Bacchus, had been discovered

in 1530 .lt l'i'saro (for its histor}/ and reputation see F. Haskcll

and \T. Pi.nii}i, T¢j'£c ¢7?d zi¢c A7¢}¢.g%c (I,ondon and New

I I'l\l'n' (',ollii.,1981), 240-1). The Jdo/¢.7Go's base had bccn

''ttnl'uti'tt' .''' I-'tirtnum noted, to Vittorio, son of I.oren?,O

Ghlbi'ni' h}. I. \iv. C,aye, (C¢77c:gpG.a ;73edG.fo d'¢7¢G.JfG., i

I Llo'rl'n.i'' 1839),108 n.), but Fortnum seems to have

Prl'tl'rrl.(1 thi' .ittribution to Dcsiderio da Settigmno, being

''1'11.1' 'trlll'k b\. thi' i'xquisitc low rclicf. Neither sculptor

"'11'1' how i'\cr' have been ri'sponsib|e for the base since this

"""" h.'''l' l)een made beforc the statue was discovered.

I"rtlu.rmore' it \vas iit>t likely to have been made in r'lorence.

I h'.1''''1' 1' in fai't kno\\I|i to-have been made for Duke

("L''t°l''llilo 11 of l'rbino, that is after 1538, and Probably

'.\''r''' LIL.l'''di'' hti'r' biit before 1574 (when he died). Ulrich

\Il'1ili'lilort ('\Toti''' o|i |tal|an Bronzcs', I;#71/G.#9'0"

''"'"":"". t Dl'l' 1938L 251~7) convincingly attributed lt to

t'''. t''rLL. 'twh o[ Aiito|") |jombardo (scc No. 54) These

I '''''h.'llll l.'t''bli'hi'i| .' foiindnr at Rccanati. The bronze

tabcmacles in the Cathedral of Milan of 1559-60 and at

Fcrmo of I 570 and the bronze doors and font for the basilica

at Lore[t] which are documented as by them are very close

in style [o the base of the Jdo/¢.7¢o both in the naturalistic

ornament and in the unmannered classicism of the narratives.

It has not been possible to place the Ashmolean's relief

next to the bronze in Florence but in both rehefs most of

the detal (which appears in both to be reproduced from the

wax model) is the same~for example, the pattern of fur at

the top of the second satyr's leg as it meets the edge of the

vine leaf, the rippling neckline of Ariadne's dress, the funtly

indicated lion head on the hub of the chariot wheel. The relief

in Florence appears to bc more varied in depth and more

vigorous in facial character; it also curves forward below feet

and wheel; but, when parts of the two reliefs are measured,

they correspond exactly: in both cases the chariot whccl is

6.7 cms. in diameter, the wand 9 cms. in length (from top of

Ariadnc's thumb to tip), and the second satyr measures

4.85 cms. in a straight line from under his right armpit to his

left shoulder. This exactness would bc remarkable if achieved

by a copyist who would have to calculate the degree to which

the bronze shrinks when cooling.

One must thcrcfore respect Fortnum's idea that his relief

was made in the same period and from the same model as

the base (the reliefs, that is, were cast in bronze from two

wax models which were cast from the same mould and tooled

with reference to a common master version). What would

seem unlikely is that it was a 'rejected first casting' as Fortnum

proposed, bccausc, although there is a firing crack in

Fortnum's relief, there arc more serious flaws in the relief on

the base-in particular a crack across the right arm and

shoulder of the first satyr and a damaged area between the

second satyr and Ariadnc-as Fortnum himself obscrved in

separate notes interleaved in his notebook catalogue.

It is, of course, just possible that the Lombardi's moulds

and master version survived and were employed in a later

period. That there would have been an interest in doing so

in the second half of the eightccnth century sccms probable

since the Lombardi's stylc of relief uncannily anticipates the

imitation of the antique which then became fashionable. A

wax mould and a wax cast after the relief are recorded in an

eighteenth-century catalogue of models at the Doccia

porcelain factory and orders were placed with Vincen7.o

Foggini for versions of the two reliefs on the Jdo/¢.7?o's base

on 12 June 1748-a wax cast survives in the Mu'seum's

collection (K. Lankhcit, J)¢.e A4lode//+¢7ceee/#»g dcr

Pop.zc//¢7?7#¢7z#/%4}#r Docc¢.¢ (Munich, 1982), 136, and

pl. 202). Thc. Adam brothcrs had a plaster cast of the base in

their collection and Robert Adam cmployed one in the

furnishings supplied to Audley End in Essex where he worked

from 1763 onwards. A study of the base is to be found in a

'sketchbook by Joseph Nollekens in the Ashmolean Museum

(fo. 81). Terracotta casts of the relief, identified merely as

'Bassorilicvt> greco', were illustrated as available for sale in

the catalogue of the 'Manifattura di Signa. Terre Cotte

artistichc c dccorative' which had sale-rooms in Florence, Rome, Turin, and Paris in the carly years of the century

(no. 381, pl. xxxviii in the copy bclonging to the Sculpture

Department, Sothcby's).


@@56

''tefano iMADL',RI«) (1576-1636)

56. Farnese Hercules

'5o i L'iiis. (height inclucling integral plmth); 22.3 cms. (length of

i::'':T[}')'2[c;n:C(J%,g(1::':):'hp::tp|"aTfi!;ftc)msth''lghH)fpllnthat

TL.rr.'L.ott.1 (jt' Pa.1C. Pillky grey COIOur, fired, or perhaps refired, at a

\.n |',gh tcmperaturc, the. body as hard as stoneware There are

'i,gi„ \,L'rtii'al firing cracks, e.g. dowTl front of the chest. The proper

nFi" ''oriier of the back t>f thc' base has been broken off and refixed,

pro[i.|i. |tirt coriicr also, inc-luding a Portion of the hillock support,

h]' bL'.in broken and refixed. There {lre also large cracks in this latter

''rL,.' Thc. figure is hollow and the intcrlors of hillock, club, and

L|r.'per\i ''re \'islble frt)in below. A large Plug of clay in the centre of

thL' i„idi.r'idi' of the Plinth (not bent.1th the fcct). Incised on the

trtw" t'.'i.i' ot' the rock belo\',. the cliit): -.' I .1 I. KCI) N ,i' AO H N A I Cjo / E Ilo I EI" -with a r\ne bctow , and

''i.iii'.'th thi' .St. M. Lx/1617'

Gi\i'Ii h\' [',ililiilncl Oldfielcl FSA, July 18o9.

Thi' i'ttltt'ssal t'ntiquc statue of which this is one of the earliest

kntt\\.n rcprt]dllctions seems to have been discovered in 1546.

|t hdd bccii plai'ed b}r 1556 in Palazzo Farnesc in Rome (see

I.. Hdski-ll aiid \'. I'cnny, T¢Jfc ¢7?d £¢c 47cf¢.g#c (Ijondon

Aiid \'ew Havcil, Conn.,1981), 229-32, no. 46). For later

i'o[iies t)f it in terracotta and bronze see Nos.152, 414 and

416. There are a series of four terracotta figures and groups

ttt' ''imilar si/,c signed by Maderno in the Ca d'Oro, Venice

(D 'i'. 79, 80, 81, 82). They reprcscnt He7.c%/cJ ¢%d Zi4G JjG.o7¢,

H[r(ules and Cactus (both dated \62\)' Hercttles and

AjjJ#„„ (dated 1622), and the group of a bearded hero

l'oldii'g a }'ttuth t)vcr his shoulder now thought to represent

•\'apfo/"»#J i]Jz.£47 A.rty¢7?¢A; (undated). The last mentioned is

'iglli.d .St. M. cx' like tlie Ashmolcan's terracotta, whereas

thc. othi'r'' .irc signed 'St. M. f ', the 'f' for fecit perhaps being

ri.'i.r\'i.il t't)r works which he had invented. It it tempting [o

'pr'l'ul.'tl' th.'t Madcmo dcvised the three groups of Hercules

lil ''i'tlotl ''s i'ompanions for his copy of Hercules resting after

111' hlwlirs' although hc is unbearded when struggling with

th'. lioii whii'h is surprising if a series is intended. The

\'l.O|ltoh'mii'' group has been intcrprcted in numerous Ways.

In Pl'rni'r'' i'riiit's of antique sciilpture published in 1638 it

" 'lll.l'tlfil'll i''' Commodus. Maderno may weu have thought

''ut it ttu) rcpri.si'iited Hercules. It is likcly, in any case, to

hM1'hi.i'lithoiigl"of.asacompanionfortheterracottaF¢y#G„

Hl.Lfll/f' '1nu thi' marble origina|'s were displayed together ln

''al''J;0 Llriii'si' (thi' group is now in the Naples Museum

no 150' iiT\. 5999)).

•\'''lll'rno ma}' ha\'e in.ide more than one version of these

i"" ''110ther Hc'7.ff4/cj' ¢#d 4#}¢c%f, dated 1620, is in the

R''\''I'10ttl'hMusciim,Edinburgh(|981.I,fromtheClerk

" P""llllk ('ollci'tioli, said to have bccn bought in Italy ln

"'''-2o'''.lndthi''groiip\vasalsoreproducedlnbronze

"'''[t.r'.\nGallcn'B.i|timore,54.665),aswasth€He7~C%/CJ

":::,'„'.::\::,::I,[::1-i;,a;;';:;:"i::;i:':;°E;:;:5Ssawn%t%dn8%rrcouqL:e

H\r:'\'.1::\\n:::l:,;,;;!|;_;'ifi','t)\t;'G';.g#;t%e%;;:%::a(Fn.TdncBaz

"""''t''ilnr'itiiiusco,1988)'84-5,no.28).Somcof

the Ca d'Oro terracottas have clean lines across the upper

limbs of the figures. These. cannot be caused by separate firing

since that could not result in such neat joins. The terracottas

must have bccn cut carefully into picccs, presumably to

facilitate the taking of moulds, and then reassembled.

Madcrno's F¢7'?¢cfc HGrc#/cf is not a meticulously exact

copy. The curls of hair and beard are, rclativcly' smaller in

the marble. Here they are treated more like the hon's mane

and with the same crisp tooling that is found in the groups

in the Ca d'Oro, and the face has the same mean or pained

grimace that seems to have been Madcrno's only idea of

expression. This is less true of a terracotta copy of the F¢77¢cfc

HG7'c#/ef, unsigned and larger (82.08 cms. high), also in the

Ca d'Oro which as been attributed to Maderno (8. Candida,

Bronzetti, terrecotte, Placchette rinascimentali di ispiraz,tone

classica alla Ca d'Oro e al Museo Correr di Venez,ia (Ttome,

1981), 57-9, no.14).

Edmund Old field, former librarian and fellow of worccster

College, Oxford, presented the Ashmolcan Museum with a

choice. collection of small classical antiquities-gold ear

pendants, iridescent glass perfume flasks, mortuary diadems,

Greek vases-n the occasion of moving house from Thurlo€

Square in London to Torquay (see his letter to Arthur Evans

of 27 May 1899 in the Archives of the Department of

Antiquities); he died at Torquay in 1902 and bequeathed

some few additional items. The Hc7'c#/cJ is identified in the

manuscript list of objects presented in July 1899, section IV

'objccts separate from cabinet', p. 7. There sccms to have

bccn no other 'modern' work, or at least no other avowedly

'modern' work, in his collection (scc, however, No.165).

Most of his collection is likely to have been assembled when

hc was travelling in Italy and the Mediterranean.

A sample was taken from the base of the figure by Mrs

Dt)r€en Stoncham of the Oxford Research Laboratory for

Archaeology and the History of Art in 1973 and again in

Mach 1987 and thcrmo-lumincsccncc tests suggested a date

between 1573 and 1743 or 1537 and 1697 (refs. 81-in-6I

and 38l-z-93).

Whilst this catalogue was in proof sergey 0. Androssov's

important article 'Works by Stefano Madcrno, Bernini and

Rusconi from the Farsetti Collection in the Ca d'Oro and the

Hermitagc' appcared in the 8%7i/¢.79gfo7? A4¢g¢£7?c (May 1991,

pp. 292-7). Androssov shows that the terracotta F¢7'7?efc

Hc7'c"/cf in the Ca d'Oro is likely to bc by Camillo Rusconi

tt> whom he also attributes a terracotta 4Po//a Bc/pedcrG in the

same collcc[ion. To the Madcrno terracotta groups in Venice

hc adds four others N¢.code7"#j tp¢.£4 £4c C7ody a/C¢rz.ff, dated

1605, now in the Hermitage, a Hercz4/cfc ¢7?d Tc/GP4#j, dated

1620, a Hc7'c#/cj.G ¢7¢d £¢c Cc7zf¢a/z dated 1626 (surviving

only as a plaster cast) and a Jj¢ocoo„, dated 1630. Hc

demonstrates that it is likely that the works by both Maderno,

Rusconi and Bernini in the Hermitage and the Ca d'Oro all

came from the collection of the Abate Filippo Farsetti (1703-

1774).


@@57

Giuscppe MAZZUoI,I / 1644-1725)

57. St Matthew

35 7cms (helght); 11 Cms. (length of base); 10cms. (width of

h.isc, i'xcludlng the Projecting Cloud llndcr the sa.int's right foot)

|'crrai'ott;I of a pa.IC Plnk}' orange. Many brcak', mostly repairec|

\',th 'ki||. thc' head of the salnt, the child angcl's nght ft-Jot and

both Wings; p..rt of'thc Cloucl base and both feet of the s nt \vcrc

onL'L, L|ctached. There are a few minor chips in the drapery A little

fT||,ng i' i>\iilem around breaks (e.g. the child angel's right foot)

purL'hased togcthcr With No. 58 from Mcssrs. P. & I) Co|naghi,

i}oni| Strcct, \\here exhiblted February aml +M<irch 1964

\(,,,ii{witl) and Et.f|hteenth Centl4ry Itmhan Sculpture' no. r|o}, wwh

'' Ltr"" of f I ,o00 mtlde by the National ArtLCollections Fiind on

19 ,\pnl 1965.

''L,L. \Tt>. 58. A sample was taken from this figure by Mrs

Dorcen Stolicham of the Oxford Research Laboratory for

\ri'h.ict>lttg}' and the His[(]ry of Art in March 1987 and

thi.r|no-luminesccni'c tests sllggcsted that it was fired

bi'[wi'cn 1657 and 1777 (ref. 38l-z-86).

Giuscppc MA7j7juoLI (1644-1725)

58. St philip

38 5 cms. (height); 14cms (length t)f base),10cms. (width ot'

base)

Terracotta of a pale pinky orange with traces of red p:lint Minor

chips to edges (>f drapery (e.g. on sdint's left arm). A slight firing

crack behind the figiire

Purchased together with No. 57 from Messrs. 1'. & D. Colnaghi,

Bond Street, where exhibited February and March 1964

(Set)enteenth ttnd Fjbghteenth C,entury It:aliari Sculpture' rio' \9\'wi.Ith

a grant of'£l,000 made by the National Art-Collections I+'und on

19 April 1965.

This tcrracom Z7ozze#o and its companion (No. 57) are related

to two of the statues of the Apostlcs commissioned by 1679

for Sicm Cathedral, cxccuted in marble, apparently during

the summer months of the year's 1680 and 1695, and set up

aga]nst the pillars of the nave in the latter year, replacing the

treccnto set which wcrc placed in the skyline of the fa€adc.

The 5Tf P¢G./G.P was being cxccuted in marble in 1687 and the

S'J A4l¢f}¢cw in 1689. This was the most important commission

given to Giuscppe Mazzuoli who was born in Volterra,

brought up in Sicna, and a prot€ge of cardinal Flavio Chigi,

'Cardinalc-nipote'-the Chigi being a Sienese family.

Ma7.zuoli had studied in Rome under Ercolc Fcrrata and

Mclchiorrc Cafa and had exccuted thc figure of C4¢7.z.fy on

Bcrnini's tomb of the Chigi pope, Alexa.nder VII (see Ij.

PaLsedi' Vite de' Pittori, SculJori ed architetti modermi ('R!orne'

1736), ii. 479-82; V. Suboff, 'Giuseppe Mazzuoli', /¢¢7r¢"c¢

der |JrettF}ischen hunstsammlttngen (\928)' 37-. I . T'a'nsccchi'

'Contribuiti a Giuseppe Mazzuoli', Co77¢7cec7¢£#7.z., 10 (1959),

35; E. Carli, 'I,c statue dcgli Apostoli per il Duomo di Sicna',

A%Z-G.c47¢.£¢ i7G.tJ¢, 7 (1968), 3-20). The Apostles were removed

from the Cathedral in 1890 after almt]st forty years of fierce

dcbatc (D.I. Romano, 'Lc statue dcgli Apostoli del Duomo

di Sieiia owcro una brutta pagim di storia senesc', P¢7'¢go72c,

26 (Nov.1975), 85-loo). They wcrc purchased for the

London Oratory in the Brompton Road in June 1895 on the

strength of photographs of thcm in a warchousc in Genoa

(A. Laing, 'Baroque Sculpture in a Nco-Baroque Setting', in

M. Napicr and A. Lalng (eds.), 7lf7G Lo7¢4Zo7G 07.¢£ory..

Cc7¢£G7¢¢ry J884-/984 (London, n.d. [1984]), 65-74). Other

G/)z2;c#G. connccted with tliis commission survive. That for St

Simcon Zelotes is in the City Art Gallery, Birmingham (see

Heiin Gallery, Ijondon, F¢ccJ ¢7¢4Z f¢ch%7'eJ of f¢G B¢7"g%C

(autumli 1971), no. 64); that for LSZ P¢%/ is in the Museo

dell'opera dcl Duomo, Orvieto; that for 5'f /o¢7? f4% I;.y¢7227£/¢.ff

was in 1965 in the poLssession of an American professor

(purchdsed in Florence, coloured, somewhat largcr48 cms.

in height-and with a sqiiarc base); and gilded 4ozzezt¢. for

C,hri,st holding the Cross and the Virgin Mary' two sta.tucs

added to the series in Siena Cathedral but not purchased for

the Oratory and now untraced, are in the Royal Scottish

Museum, Edinburgh (also largerl6 cms. in height-see

Heim Gallery, ILtjndon, Scvc% Cc7¢f%7.G.Gf of E%yapc¢7¢

5Tc%/j7£e% (summc,~ 1982), nos. 21-2). Vi'rsions of sc\'cral of

these bozzett:i (Paul' Philip, and Matthew) aire also to bc

found in the Fondazionc Accademia Musicale Chigiana in

Sicna, as is the only recorded version of the 6.f B¢#¢o/o7„cty.

The Z7oz2;c#z. for PbG./G.P and A4¢#¢cw in Siena arc larger (42.4

and 42.2 cms.) than those in Oxford, and more scratchily

modelled in the head. That of Sf P¢G./¢.P is initialled 'D.B.'

(M. Butzek, 'Die Modellsammlung der Mazzuoli in Siena',

P4r„£¢eo#, 46 (1988), 75-102, pls. 33nd). The inventory of

the vast collection of models and casts belonging to the

Mazzuoli family which was compiled in 1767 specifically

mentions two Sf A4l¢#bcwf as original clay models by Giuscppe

(ibid. 88, no.102, and 91, no.107) and there are other

duplications of this sort. The attributions in the inventory arc

unlikely to be cntirely reliable, and it ccrtalnly sccms as odd

that Mazzr,uoli should have repeated himself as it seems natural

for one of his pupils or farily to have copied him. Laing (op.

cit.) notes the significance in this connection of the fact that

a ncphew of Mazzuoli made full-scale replicas of the statLics

for the ColleSata of sinalunga. Hugh Macandrew (notes in

the Depar[mcnt's files) points out that there is a relati(>nship

between the Ashmolean's 4o2;zc#o (probably representing St

Philip) and a S£/¢7"cf £¢c LCJJ, one of a series of wooden

sculptures, about 2± fcet high, in the Museo del]'Opcra del

Duomo in Sicna-another statue in the series, the S£/#de, is

also related to one of Mazzuoli's Apostles, but there is no

reason to attribute these figures to Mazzuohi nor to call them

boz;zrf:tti (a,s Enrz.o Chi docs .lr\ 11 Mtt§eo dell'Opera e la

Libreria Piccolomini di Siena (Sicne, \946). 27).

The relationship between the Ashmolean's two 4oz2;c#j and

the marble statues now in the Oratory has been admirably

defined by Macandrew.

The St. Matthew is close to the full scale figure, except that in the

latter the head is inclined more to the right and the Apostle looks

directly at his gospel. In the larger format there is greater emphasis

on the front plane. The p##o is tuned more to the spectator while

the Apostle's left foot and drapery are brought more to the front. . .

The other statuette is obviously connected with the Oratorv's St.

Philip, the essential diffcrenccs being that in the latter the Saint is

shown with his usual attribute, a Cross, which he supports under his

left arm. Apart from this however and also the fact that in the larger

format the head is turned up to the left, correspondence is very

close indeed. Facial features arc exactly similar as indeed are his

stance, the folds of the drapery and the position of the r]ght arm

holding the book . . . it is possible that the modification was the

result of the instability which is plainly evident in the foe;zcf}o.

Documents do in fact reveal that Mazzuoli modified his Sf

P¢;/¢.P when hc was carving it (Butzek, op. cit. 89 and n.104).


@@59

.\ft.„. M|CI-lEIANGELO Bllonarroti (1475-1564)

59. Aurora

Io 8 I-,n'. (height f'rom support below figure's right elbow to top

ot.hcl.'d),18.7 cms. (length); 23.5 Cms. (length of figure f'rom

top o|. hiiid to broken Cnd of' figure'S rlght leg); 22 cms. (length

oi' b.i'se); 9 cms. (height of base); 8.9 cms. (width of basci)

RL'.I \'..'\. The figure'S left .1rm and right foot arc missing. A large

I,atL.h h''s bi'en repaired on the upper Part of the figure's left thigh.

RL.I,L',r' Liri' also e\'idcnt on the upper and lower part.s of the left leg.

rhL.rc h ,in iiii'(tngrllous additltm rt] the lo\\Jer part t]f the right leg.

oIll dithcsi\c is apparent Where the figure is broken and on the

tir.'[ier\I belo\'' The Surface of the figure is pitted, scratched, and

L,r.'L.ked. The wdx is mounted on an old worm-catcn arched block

oi. p,[ic \''hii'h retains on the square f'ace behind the figure's back

't,nil. onguial painted decoration Collsisting of a radial pattern of

'ir.'hTuiue' in gt)ld dgalnst a dark ground with a gold border.

Gih of Chambers H:ill, April 1855 (I)o7?¢fG.072f Boo4, 28). Bought

h\. him from one of the Woodburn brothcrs who bought it at a sale

oi' 'ir Thomas ljawrellcc's collection in 1830 (see below). Probably

lil,'L'cit on disiilti}J in 1856 (cf. No. 21). The wax is recorded in the

f+#jj/¢oo4 G#zdcJ tjt' 1859 and 1865 as on display with the paintings

gi\.cn b\' (',hambers Hall in what is now the Foundcr's Gallery.

\|ii'hclangelo's marble statue of A%/oz¢ (Dawn) was executed

betwecn 1524 and 1531 for one side of the sarcophagus

hi.low the effigy of Ijorcnzo de' Medici duke of Urbino in

tlii' Medici Mausoleum in S. Lorenzo, Florence. It was never

iun'L>leti'd in the fcct and drapery. An accurate 'small copy

'iii-h as this wax might have been made as an exercise by

.tnt-ithcr allist in the sixtccnth, seventeenth, or eighteenth

Li.iituni's. It could then have been adopted as a collector's

pii'i'i.' but is also finishecl enough to have been intended as

such. Such wax copies were certainly sought after. Picrino da

Vinci made oiic of Michelangclo's A4ofcf for his patron in the

mid-sixteenth century, and carly scvcnteenth-century Flemish

paintings of collector's cabinets show small figures in red wax

Among the small bronzes ttf varied patina-for instance, the

allegory of SGgivf signed by Jan Brucghcl in 1617 (Prado,

no.1394) which includes a red war statuette of the A7zf¢.7io"f

about 10 cms. high and what may be pink wax statucttcs,

rather larger in size, of A#7.o7'¢ companion with one of IVzJ¢f

(from the tomb of Giuliano de' Medici).

The work is entered in the Museum.s Do7£¢f¢.o7" Boo4,

presumably in accordance with the donor's description, as

'Wax Model, original by Michael Angclo, being the figure of

Night in the Medici Chapel, formerly in the possession of sir

Thomas I,awrence'. The appropriatcncss of adding it to a

collection which included the drawings by Michelangelo

which had alst] belonged to Lawrence is t)bvious. In the sale

of Lawrence's collection at Christic's, Ijondon, on 19 June

1830, lot 346 was 'A Wax Model, by Michelanalolo, of one

of the recumbent female figures exccuted by hin in marble

in the Sacristy of the Church of st. I.{)renzo at Florence',

marked down to 'Woodburn' for £14 3s. 6d. Presumably it

was sold by Woodbum to Chambers Hall. I,awrencc also

owned a number of small groups and reliefs in wax attributed

to Giambologna (ibid., lots 348, 349, 350, 357), of which

two, bought at his sale by Richard Ford, survive in the

collection of sir Brinsley Ford (for one of thesc see No. 46).

It is likely to bc the reclining statuette mounted on a buhl

plinth in the foreground of an anonymous engraving of

I,awrence's sitting room in 65 Russell Square (K. Gahick, S¢.r

Tbo%¢f L¢t"yc72cG (Oxford,1989), 2z fig. 4).


@@60

Probably an Italian goldsmith, perhaps of the sevcntccnth

Century.

After MIC,HEIANGF,LO Buonarroti (1475-1564)

60. Pieta

14.6 cms. (height of group); 6.7 cms. (height of plinth);

12.25 cms. (length of'plinth); 7.6cms. (width of plinth)

Bronze with a pale chocolate patina, evidently an alloy very rich in

copper. Thin-walled, I(.)st-wax, cast, open behind. All projecting

i'lemcnts s.'em to bc hollt>w exccp[ perhaps for the right arm of

Chri'sL The Virgin's thumb is broken off and there arc dents in

both of christ's knccs (damage already recorded in Fortnum's

catalogues and photographs). A t.rown-red wax has becii u'sed ttj

plug a small hole within the deepest fold of'drapery on the proper

right 'side of the gro'ip; other pin-sized holes remain in this area.

Si.t in a plinth, rectangular in plan but with the f'ront corners

chamferccl, made of' a solid block of ro+so 4z»f;co with 7zcrc) ¢#JG.eo

mouldings above. and below. This is unlikely to be onginal, not least

because the irrcgiilar form of the integral rock-work bronze ba'sc

does not fit perfectly Into the aperturc' for it and is surroimded b}r

disfiguring cement. It looks like an Italian eighteenth-century plinth.

The bronze is painted '8. /434. / a.' in white c)n its hollow rear.

Lcnt by C. D. E. Fortnum in March 1888, given later in the same

year. 8. 434 in his catalogucs. No. 8, p. 38, in his preliminary

catalogue of 185z where it is stated to have bccn bought in Rome

in 1851. On a sheet entitled 'Memoranda of Pric-cs paid' it is listL'd

as an item acquired in or before that year, for 12 fc#¢£., togL'ther

with the small bronze .''P¢#¢rG.a and the Vc##j, i.e. the bathing

woman after Giambologna, No. 39 (for 18 and 20 sciidi), the total

of 50 scudi translating as flo 12s. 6d. (The entries for these lat-ter

items in the preliminary catalogue both concludc 'Rome 51 ', wliich

confirms this date.)

Fortnum in his prcliminary catalogue described this bronzi' as

of 'very light ft]nt' and of the 'highcst qualit}J and finish'. Hc

thought it Florentine and 'worthy of' Cellini'. In the notebook

catalogue hc considered it late sixteenth century, 'probably'

Florentine, and 'possibly' by Annibalc Fontana to whom a

C7.#c¢f:¥;o7¢ in the South Kcnsingron Miiscum (Vlctoria and

Albert Museum 7440-1860) was then attributed. Finally, in

his large catalogue, he suggested that it was perhaps an

cxamplc of r'lorentine goldsmith's work of the carly

'seventeenth century. This la'tt proposal sccms highly

probable; but it might bc later in date. It is a work of vcry

meticulous and miniature workmanship, cqualled in this

among the Ashmolean Mu'seum's br(tiizes only by Nos. 385

and 386-also carly acquisitions of Fortnum's. The rippling

edge of the robe, the blood froin Christ's wounds, and the

nails of fingers and toes arc especially remarkable.

Michelangelo's marble P¢.c£¢, today in St Petcr's, Rome,

was commissioned for the church of s. Pctronilla, by Cardinal

Jean Villiers de la Groslayc, probably in 1497 and is supposed

to have been completed by 1500. If the model for this bronze

was made directly from the marble then it must have been

executed before 1736 when four broken fingers of the

Virgin's left hand were incorrectly rcstored by Giuscppe

Lironi~thc hand hcrc corresponds to that in the sixteenth-ccntury

engravings, Small bronzcs wcrc. being madc after Michelangelo's marble sculpture during the sixteenth century

when Pictro da Barga made one of the RG.fc7¢ G¢rG.ff of s.

Maria sopra Minerva. The P¢.c£¢ was copied in marble by

Nanni di Baccio Bigio for the Florentine church of s. Spirito

where it was installed in March 1549, so a model for the

bronzc sta[uettc could easily have been made in Florence after

that date.

While faithful in all essentials, the niore minute particulars

in thc. Ashmolean t)ronze do not correspond with those in

the original. For instance, in the marble, the folds in the cloth

ovcr the Virgin's head are inorc broken; thc Virgin's thumb

as well as her fingers appears beneath Christ's right arm, and

tile fingers arc opened; the rock-work base is more cxtended

to the left of the base and is not so apparent in front of the

group. The Ashmolcan bronze is indeed less close to the

original-and far more artistic in its modifications-than the

other bronzc copies of the group, all of which arc between

two and three times larger (Frick Collection, New York-formerly

Picrpont Morgan and Pfungst Collections, for which

see J. Pope-Henncssy and A. F. Radchffe, '/77c FrG.c4 Co//cc}¢.o„

. . . /£#/a.¢„ Sc"/Pf#7ic (New York,1970),196-8; another with

Jacques Seligmann 8[ Co., New York, in February 1937 when

loaned to 44¢jf¢gr B"oce2;cf, an exhibition at the Albright Art

Gallery, Buffalcr-reproduced in the catalogue as no.136;

another sold Sotheby's, London,10 April 1975, lot 85; and

a fourth, with different drapery on the Virgin's chest, lot Ill

at Christic's, ktndon, 3 July 1985).

]r| ,\|,|AN S(:U|jp.|'URF,S: NAMED AR'|'|S.|'


@@61

Probably a French modeller and foundry of thc late

sevcntcenth ccnturv

After MICHEIANGELO Buonarroti (1475-1564)

61. Moses

39.8 cms. (height); 18.4 cms. (lengrh from front of sandal to back

of block); 8.1 cms. (width of block at base excluding the left foot

of Moses)

Bronze with warm slightly green brt)wn natural patina with much

varni'sh, in places now black, especially in the hollows. Hollow, lost-wax,

cast. The walls arc of irregular thickness, with small perforations

in the folds of drapery where the bronze is thinnest. The figure is

open below and some core remains in the prophet's left foot. In

soinc parts the cast is imperfectly cleaned (see the folds of drapery

around the lieck); in others, such as the head, it is boldly but precisely

chiselled. Remains of i small paper label with the word 'Coll.' printed

in red arc on the block in front of the prophct's left foot.

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum in October 1894 and bequeathed in

1899. 8. 441 in his catalogues. 'Bought at Christie's £30.'

Presumably after 1857 when the preliminary catalogue, in which it

is not mentioned, was compiled. Placed in the Students' Room of

the Heberden Coin Room in 1956.

Michelangclo's cclebrated marble A4lofc+ was carved for the

tomb of pope Juhius 11. The tomb was first conceived in 1505

but the statue probably dates from 1513. It was abandoned

in 1516 and set up in its present position in S. Pictro in

Vincoli, Rome, in 1542. Small copies began to be made soon

afterwards: according to Vasari one in wax was made by

Pierino da Vinci. Fortnum supposed this 'finely cxccuted

reduction after the statue by Michel Angelo . . . of rich

coppcry metal & fine dark patina', to be Italian of the

seventeenth century or of the earlier years of the eighteenth

century. Fortnum's dating may well be correct, but the bronze

might be French rather than Italian. In any case it is in France

that bronze statuettes of the jM+jfGf are found. Most notably

in the Paris Salon in 1699 (LG.p7.Gf,13) a group was exhibited

consisting of a C¢7'Zjf, A4ojcf, and /o473 £¢c B¢Pfz.f} on a pedestal

'de marquetcric' (possibly buhl) and symbolizing the 'union

dc l'Ancien et du Nouveau Testament par le vcnuc de Jesus

Christ'. The C47q.f} was by 'Francois Flamand' (that is '11

Fiammingo', Duqucsnoy), the A4lofcJ by 'Michel Ange', and

the /o¢7? by M. Girardon. The 'by' is misleading and it is

surely possible that all three works were modelled by Girardon,

although only the last was his invention. The group also

features in the engravings, and in the posthumous inventory,

of Girardon's collection-'le tout de Bronze mats sur un pied

d'Estall de Marquetrie enrichi d'ormment dorez dor moulu'.

The engravings reveal that Girardon rejoiced in making

groups out of works of art independently conceived, but these

seldom have a symbolic significance such as was suggested

here. (r'. Souchal, 'La Collection du sculptcur Girardon,

d'apres son invcntalre apres d6ces', G¢2;G#G dGf 4c¢":x;-4!#r,

82 (1973), 38-9, no.16, fig.17).

Bronze statuettes of A4ofGr of both a larger and smaller size

than the Ashmolean's arc known: one 68.4 cms. high, thin-walled,

with a ruddy varnish, was no. 35 in J. Fischer, 'JT¢e

F7ic7zc¢ 87.o"2;c /500-J800, catalogue of an exhibition at

Knoedler and Co. (New York,1968), no. 35; another 34 cms.

high, thin-walled, with a blackened red varnish, is in the

rescrvc collection of the Victoria and Albert Miiseum (A.84-

1910); a third, of high quality and very close in size to the

Ashmolcan's bronze, was lot 139 at Sothcby's, New York, 22

June 1989. Souchal (op. cit.) notes that a bronze A4ofef, '1 I

pouces, 9 ligncs de haut', was included in the Royal French

inventory of 1707 (unpublished MS, fo. 899) and that one

'] 5 pouccs dc haut' was in that of Cardinal Richclicu

(L. Boislislc, 'l.es Collections des sculptures du Cardinal dc

Richelieir' , M6moires de la Soci6t6 Nationale des Antiquaires

de F7:¢„cc, 42 (1881), 87). The lattcr converts to a

measurement only half a ccntimctrc higher than the

Ashmolean's bronze so that the two are likcl}' to bi' cast by

the same foundry or at least from the same model.

It is noteworthy that reproductions of Michclangclo's Mofcj

were not among the bronzc statuettes offcred for salc in

Rome in the late eighteenth century by Righetti and Zoffoli.

On the other hand the Barbediennc foundry did make sand-cast

bronzes of inferior finish and after mechanically

reduced models in the mid-nineteenth century.


@@62

Ninctccnth-century foiindry, probably French or Bclgiali

After MICHELANGE[,O Buomrroti (1475-1564)

62. Giuliano de' Medici

93.6cms. (height); 33.3 cms. (leiigtli of.pliiith); 36cms. (width

ofplinth)

Bron7.c u.ith a natural pale grecny-brown I)atim. Hollow, sand-cast,

in five picces: the head; the figure''' nght arm from the shoillder Io

the hand, including the top portion of the baton; the figure's left

arm from near the shoulder to thc. wrist; thi' figure's nght lcg,

including a portion of the plinth; the rest of the figure including

most of the pliiith. Some of the)oins are fine (that on the top of the

neck especiaJl}' so, although the rivet is \Jer}r app:'reiit) while others

are crude. Piece-mould ''eams are visible in some places (c..g. his left

shoulder). Much patching of casting flaws has been carried out in a

diff'crent cctloured alloy: the patch below the figiirc's left forearm is

apparently of'lead. The metal is Imperfectly c'Icaned and only in a

few areas of flesh, most obvio'isly the head, is it fully polished. See

also below.

Given by R. P. 8. I)avies 'late of 28, Wellington Square' [Oxford].

Registered on 23 March 1960.

The seated effigy of Giuliano dc' Medici, duke of Nemours,

brothcr of Pope Leo X, may have bccn first conceived by

Michelangclo when he took on the planning of a new Medici

Mausoleum in S. Ijorcnzo in 1520, and is probably the effigy

which documents suggest to have been well advanced by June

1526. It was placed in its niche before the autumn of 1534.

This effigy was the most finished of the figures in the chapel

(only the projecting right ft]ot requiring further work). All

the allegories and effiSes of t.hc Medici Mausoleum were

much reproduced in F'rance in the nineteenth century from

models reduced by the machine invented by Collas which

were cast by the Barbediennc foundry. The figures of Day

and NSJ¢f had been appropriately adapted as clock

ornaLments in both the early and late cightecnth century (see

H. Ottomcyer and P. Pr6schel, Vc7igo/de}p 87ioac2;c7?, 2 vols.

(Munich,1986), i. 45 and 296; ii. 481). In the mjddic of the

nineteenth century Collas and Barbedicnne di'vised a massive

chimney-piece clock involving not only the allegories of. the

times of day but the effigy of I,orcnzo as 'I,c Silcnce',

approximately 30 inches high. The Barbedicnnc catalogue

of 1862 includes all six statues frttm the Medici tombs ('scc

M.-T. Baudry, Ministere de la Culture, Ia Sc#/pf#7.e (Paris,

1978), 326). Other foundries also reproduced these figures,

among them the firm of sauvagc, which also incorporated

Lorenzo's effigy into a mantel clock (see lot 98, Christic's,

I,ondon, 28 Scptcmbcr 1989), and the 'Compagnie dcs

Bronzcs Bruxclles', one of whose casts of Ijorcnzo, 71 cms.

in height, was lot 62W, Sotheby's, Ijondon,10 June 1988,

and another, of the same size, lot 302W, Sotheby's, I,ondoll,

5nd November 1987. The Ashmolean Museum's bronze of

Giuhano is unmarked but this is unsurprising since it is also

unfinished. Given the patching, a darker artificial patina was

obviously meant to be apphied, but there would also have

been much tooling to sharpen the dctai] and to make the

jc>ins less apparent. Howcvcr improved, it is hard to bclicve

that this would ever have been mistckcn for anything t>thcr

than a mechanical reduction-and one lmdc from a pl.ister

cast. Undercutting is avoidcci, for in'mni'i. in the baton, and

the drat)ery escaping from the armour on thi' figllre's left has

iiot bccn understood.


@@63

'Styli' of MICHF,I,ANGELO Buonarro[i (1475-1564)

63. Keyhole escutcheon in the form

of a grotesque winged mask

8.9 cms. (height); 11.8 cms. (width, wing-tip to wing-tip)

Bronze, fire-gilt.

Attal'hed to thl' 'Flfz¥!:I'1%=ocgi.T> qa^,!'net', for which see No 35

As discussed elscwhcrc in this Catal'ogiic (under No 35),

some of the omiolu mounts on the PG.Gf7i¢ d%" cabinet are

likely to be original. The scroll feet, tendril volutcs, and leaves

may well be cast after models by Giovanni Battista Foggini

but this escutcheon perhaps came from another, earlier, piccc

of F'1orentinc furniture. It is a typical variation on a theme in

Michelangclo's art, best represented by the front and back of

the breastplate of the effigy of Giuliano de' Medici in the

Medici Chapel in S. Lorenzo, Florence (for which see No. 62).

Whereas such grotesque masks arc most characteristic of the

second half of the sixtccnth century they continued to be

popular in Florence in the sevcntcenth century and a distinct

echo of them is found in some designs of the eighteenth

century such as the handles of vases by Clodion (see Nos. 262,

263) or the keyhole escutcheon of the silver microscope of

about 1763 made for King George IV when prince of wales

by George Adams (Science Museum, I+ondon).


@@64

@@65

Egidio MORETTI (active between 1611 and 1638, d. after

1651)

64 and 65. Pair of Romans in

consular dress

213 cms. (height of No. 64, including integral plinth); 8 cms.

(height of 64's integral plinth); 56 cms. (length of 64's integral

plinth); 216.5 cms. (height of No. 65, Including Integral plinth);

10 cms. (height of 65's integral plinth); 77 cms. (length of 65's

integral plinth)

White marble of uncertain origin. The surface is severely weathered

and discoloured with ingrained dirt (especially in the case of No. 65).

There is a honzontal crack in No. 64 at liip level. The head of No. 64

locks original but was 'pieced' (carved from a different block of

marble) and inserted with the neckline of the drapery coicealing the

)oin. It is now loose and the join is very evident. A rusty Iron cramp

is cxposed behind the neck. The scroll held in the figure's left hand

and two fingers and the thumb of the hand itself have been broken

off and replaced, with considerable additions in plaster. The Irregular

shape of the plinth is unlikely to be original. The head of No. 65

appears to have been carved out of the same block as the body and

the plinth but has been broken off and replaced: a large chip below

the break is missing. The nose has been restored: the replacement

is loose and of a darker colour. A large part of both forearms has

been broken off and is missing. The figurc's right stump has been

cut and drilled to receive a new forearm and an iron cramp, but

neither are now in place.

Given to Oxford University by the dowager coulitess of Pomfrct

(see Nos. 516, 517) in 1755. For the provenance see Nos. 66 and

67. The statues may be discerned in William Wcstall's drawing of

the sculpture gallery in the Old Schools signed in 1813. After

transfer to the University Galleries they were certainly among the

statues described in the Crypt or Siib-Gallery but whereas one is

surely described there as 'a statiie of a Roman Consul', the identity

of the other is uncertain~it may be 'a statue of Dcmosthenes'

(H~"d6oofe (7'%;dc (1859), 23) No. 64 u as taken out of storage in

the mid-1970s and placed on display in a nichc in the Randolph

Gallerv on the initiativc of' Michacl Vickers

For Moretti and Arundel scc Nos. 66 and 67. Although

apparently not intended by Arundcl as portraits, one at least

of these statues had, like both companion Roman warriors,

as'suned a specific identity by the cightcenth century. Vertue

described one of them as 'A statue very noble, and bigger

than the life of Quintus Fabius Maximus, in his senatorial

robes (a true antique as are both the Scipios), the I. hand is

wanting, the r. held up in a spcaklng posturc'. The other was

merely 'a fine statue of a Senator in his robcs' (quoted in

I. Hess, 'I~ord Arundel in Rom und sein Auftrag a.n den

Bildha.ucr Egidio Morctti', ET7?g/jffo M¢.Jcc//¢%)J, 1 (1950), 209).

It is surprising that Vcrtue considered the statues to bc

antique. That the figures were modcm does, however, seem

to have bccn acknowledged in Oxford for Chandler did not

include them in his A4¢y7%o/a Oxo%£.G#fG.a of 1763. It had

been forgotten again by the time of the fJ¢%dGoofe G%¢.de of

1859 in which they arc rccorded as antique. Michaelis regarded

No. 65 as 'vcry cffcctive, but the whole statue seems to be

new' and No. 64 to bc of 'similar stylc' but 'coarser cxecution'

and '1ikewise the work of a very clever modern imitator'.

Michaclis noted that No. 64 was wearing the pallium, the

common outer garment of a Greek citizen, and 65 the Roman

toga, although in an unusual arrangement (A7%¢.c#} M¢7~¢/Gf

¢.# G"} Byj£¢j# (Cambridge,1882), 5534, mos. 46 and

47), but it is clear from Arundel's contract with Moretti that

both figures were intended to represent Romans in consular

dress.

@@66

@@67

F,gidio MORETTI (active betwccn 1611 and 1638; d. after

1651)

66 and 67. Pair of Roman warriors

224 cnis. (heigllt of' No. 66 including integral plinth); 11 cms.

(height of 66's integra.I plinth); 76.5 cms. (length of.66's integral

plinth); 226.5 cms. (hclgh[ of No. 6z incliiding integral plinth);

8 5 cms. (height of 67's integral plinth); 79 cms' (lengrh of 67's

Hitegral plinth)

whitc mdrblc of uncertain orlgin. The surface is scvcrely wcathcred

and discoloured with ingralned dirt (especially in the case of No.

67). There ]s a crack across the pllnth of No. 66. A large chip is

missing from the front of the helmet, and also from the drapery at

the figure's nght elbow. The pommel and the blade of the sword

have been broken off and do not survlve. The figure's left arm has

alst) been lost; Its stump retains an old hole for seculing an addition

and the mdrblc may have originally been pieced here. In the case of

Ntt. 67 a large portion of the cloak crossing the chest has been

hroken off' and lost, as has the figure's left arm and the sword in

his ngh(hand, togethcr with part of the hand itself. The nose and

|o\\ier llp are missing, the surface of both places has been cut to a

L'(jiivcnient flat surface, scored, a.nd fitted with all iron cramp from

\'rhich restorations have since bccomc detached. A small iron cramp

is also evident in the figure's rlght hand. 'AEGIDUS MORE.Trus /

RoMMANuS F'ACIEBAT' is chisclled on the side of each plinth to

pr,,per left.

Gi\'cn to oxford University by the dowager countess of Pomfret

('ec Nos. 5]6, 517) in 1755. The sculptures are the 'homini armati'

\\hlch M(jretti contracted to make for Thomas Howard, 2nd carl of

Anindel, on 10 June 1614 in Rome together with a pair 'in abito

illti i'onsolan' (Nos. 64 and 65) and which were all completed by

25 |anuarv 1617 (J Hess, 'I~{)rd Arundel in Rom und sein Auftrag

dn den Bildhaucr Egidio Moretti', E72g/G.f47 jl4¢.fcc//¢„y, I (1950),

199~200; also, for a transcription of the contract, D. Howarth,

/jo7.d i4y%72de/ ¢72d 47G.f (,TG.yc/G (New Haven, Conn., and Ijondon,

1985)' 229-30 n. 40). The statues were acquired with a large

|tortion of the Arundel marbles by ljady Pomfret's father-in-law Sir

w1lliclm Fermor (later Lord lj€mpster) from the 6th duke of Norfolk

in 1691 and were for some ye.irs kept in the gardens of the family

'1" of I,aston Neston, Northamptonshire, although by 1632 they

hati .1.1tterlv almost all' been taken within doors ('The Vertue

\'otcbooks', i\', W¢/po/c L'TocGcty, 24 (1935nd), 40). In Oxford the

'tatlle' u'cre dlsplayed in the Old Schools and then transferred to

the uliversit\,' Galleries where they are recorded in the Zr¢#dGoofe

(J'it!d6' of 1859 in the Crypt or Sub-Gallery but visiblc to the public

I rp 23i as 'statues of Roman F,mpcrors', nos.113 and 119).

I'hc'\ rl'mamed (in display until the 1870s when they seem to have

h"II Pllt Hl store ln the late |940s they were declared to bc 'lost'

I:''c::;::.I,CT]TL:'rrkearb(,)\?::):TC;]c:I:1::::efo¥:I(S);:Ts::,Ss::ts:emsetnot:s:Sptp:::e,n

'hl.n' \ The\' were tracec| by the mid-|970s when one statue of this

P'''r' \'0 66' was placed on display in a niche in the Rando[Ph

(;alltn oi' the Initiative of Michael Vickers.

I B''t't) '\{Orcttl u ds a ininor sculptor workmg in Rome ln the

L..'r'\ 'l'\l'ntecnth i'cntury He i's documented as Supplying

'L'''l'tllrl] for the Borghese Chapel in S Mana 'sopra Mlnerva

" 1 all.lnd statiie\s for the skyline of the fa¢ade of st

P'.tL.r''m1613,als(jasrcstoringantiquitiesforthcQunnnal

!''''." Ill 16231lld making a tomb for S. Bartolomeo ln 1638

87

ITAljlAN SCULPTURES NAMED ARTIST

ITAljlAN SCLTljpTUR+i,S. NAMED ARTIST

(Hess, op cit 213-14, see also S. Prc''souyre, NGco/¢f Coydfc7^,

2 vols. (Rome,1984), i. 219 n., 303 n., and ii. 393). The

contract between him and 'Signor Tommaso' was for the

four statues (thcsc two warriors and the two men in consular

dress, Nos. 64 and 65) to bc ten P¢/%¢. high and made within

a year-'160 di moncta di paolo 10 per.ciascuna statua finita

nel modo sopradctto: in qucsto modo cioc scudi 60 ogni trc

mesi anticipata da comminciare dal giorno chc comminciera

il lavoro et cosi sequitarc fino al inticro pagameiito faccndo

pero il lavoro che merita ct denaro che se g[i dara'. It is

surpnsing that Arundel employed ''uch a minor sculptor, but

Moretti may have sccmed to be a promising young man and

when Arundel arrived in Rome in 1613, the bettcr-cstablished

sculptors, such as Stcfano Maderno, Pictro Bernini, and

Nicolas Cordier, were fully employed. He may also have

cmployed Morctti as restorer of the antique statues which he

had acquired or which he hoped to acquire in Rome (certainly

those exported in his naine in 1626 were restored, as is clear

from the document cited in No.139). The four statues were

evidently designed to be displayed in niches or ag+nst a wall

for although the backs are finished they are of no Interest.

Contracts are not always an infallible guide to the precise

identity of works of art but, if portraits of particular Romans

were intended, then it seems likcly that this would have been

mentioned. By the eighteenth century, howevcr, Vertuc

described them as 'Two fine statues of the Two Scipio's in

their general's habit, very perfect and exceeding fine' (qiioted

in Hess, op. cit. 209). Hc believed them to be 'true' antiques'

but when in Oxford they must have been recognized as

modern works~Moretti's name is on the plinths and ljord

Arundel's heraldic animals are carved on the fringes of the

cuirasses~and they were not included in Chandler's

A4¢7%o/¢ O*o7¢;e#f;a of 1763. In character they may be

compared with the statues of Romans, and of modern rulers

in the guise of Romans, found, for example, in Palladio's

Teatro Olimpico in Vicenza, in the Sala dcl Ducccnto of

Palazzo Vecchio in Florence, and, above all, in the Palazzt>

dei Conservatori in Rome-some, if not all, of which Arundel

muse have seen. The style of armour, the belt over the cuirass,

and the treatment of the cloak recall Cordier's great bron?,e

statue of K;#g HG#ry JV a/r'/¢%cc erected in the Lateran in

1609 and the helmets on the plinths recall those in his

unfinished statue of S£ Lsch¢f};¢# of 1604-5 in the

Aldobrandini Chapel in S. Maria sopra Minerva (Pressouyrc,

op. cit., pis. 64 and 136).


@@68

Franccsco Maria t\TOCC,HIL'.RI (active mid-to Late

seventeenth centur}J)

68. Apollo, seated holding his lyre,

attentive to the Muses

46 cms. (height); 25.75 cms. (length of base); 17.2 cms. (width

of base)

Red terracotta with a pale pinky grey slip thickest where gathered

in the hollows so that the salient ridgc's of the hair and clawed

texture of'thc ground are pronounced. The pro)ecting drapery is

broken off behind the figurc's nght arm, a.s i's the foremost loop of

the drapery behind his left arm; the figiire's right hand has been

broken off very neatly.

Purchased appareiitly in 1950, but never registcred and 'mislaid'

1965ul (see below).

Queen Christina of Swedcn commissioned a marble statue of

Apollo from Nocchieri to complete a gr.oup of eight antique

Muses which she had acquired. She pro)cctcci a Chamber of

the Muses for the sculptures in her palace (formerly Palazzo

Riario, subsequently Palazz(> Corsini) in the Via de[la Lungara

in Rome after she was installed there in July 1659. The Muses

were placed between sixteen Corinthian columns of27;a//a

¢73£j~ with gilded stucco captials against frescoes of

landscapes-the APo//a was on a broader base in the centre

of the short wall opposite the chief entrance (C¢7.jJ};#¢ QL%eG# ';f-;Tveden~aper-i;nalit!.of.Euro^?'e?ncjiv'i!i%t_i.on'

(Nationalmuseum, Stockholm, 29 June-16 0ct. 1966), 321,

no. 741, pl. 62). Little is known of Nocchien. Hc was a

prot696 of Cardinal Az?+olini coming, likc Azzolini, from the

M¢7.c¢e, and is said to have died young. He executed the

monument commemorating Queen Christina's visit to the

Capitol in 1656 (Sala dei Magistrati, Pala7jzt] dei

Conservatori)-a work of very poor design featuring a very

unhappily modelled and poorly executed bust of the Queen.

The terracotta is a work of' a different order. The still life at

the god's feet alone suggests exceptional talent.

The queen's collection was bequeathed in 1689 to Cardinal

Azz,olini, who died a few wccks afterwards, and was then sold

(for the most part) in 1692 by his heir, Marchese Pompeo

Azzolini, to Don I_,ivio Odcscalchi, nephew of Pope Innocent

X1.In17130dcscalchi'scollectionwasinheritedbyhiscousin

Baldassare d'Erba who sold the 4o//a and Muses to Philip

V of spain in 1724. The Muses arc now in the Prado in

Madrid while the Apo//rj has, for over half a century, formed

palf of a fountain in the gardens of the Palace of Aran)uez.

His rock-work scat crowns a miniature mountain of silrilar

rocks cut into steps in front down which water can run into

a basic fnnged with simulated stalactitic rock Bchind the god

is a curved screen of six Corinthian columns connecting two

piers crowned by putti supporting bases.

The Ashmolean Museum's terracotta was acquired with an

;:,tznz3::?(:rtso=hi:La,:g:lpoo,s,:of:7Ialnt=a:::cAosgs:s,tzidtafeacper

lntheDepartmcnt,inFcbruary1966aftcrhehadseenaSlidc

ofanengravingofthelattcrinoneofCar|Nordenfalk'sSladc

lj€ctures. Thanking Mr Ijowe for communicating this

d[scovcr}r on 5 March Professor Nordcnfalk asked that the

tcrr.icotta bc added to the list of items in the Ashmolcan

Miisciim which the Council of Europe wcrc requesting for

the cxliibition on Queen Christina at the Nationalmuseum

11 Stockholm. On 9 March Mr Lowe replied that, after an

L''tcnsivc search, the terracotta could no longer be found.

on 17 June, Luke Hcrrmann, another Assistant Keeper,

reported to Nordenfalk that the terracotta had been rctricv€d,

ha\ring been advertised by a 'Ijondon dealer' in the E#2r/¢.f¢

A7t/t)%77¢¢/. It had been stolen from the Museum. Because

the matter was 'in the hands of the police' the statuette could

n(]t bc loaned.

Comparison with Photographs of the marble statue kindly

'L,nt to the Museum in November 1986 by the Patrimonio

\T.'cioiial Lshow that there arc only minor diffcrenccs-in the

marble version the lyre has an acanthus leaf ornament on its

irms' the rock-work is of a different pattern so that the god's

right foot is placed higher, the quiver beside his right foot is

ri'\'crsed so that, now that it is on a slope, the arro\\Js do not

'|ip out (most of the bow is missing but seems to have been

of the same type), the posture and character of the head with

it'' prt>nounced corymbos approximate more closely to those

ttf' the APo//o J}G/J7edc7'c, and the left hand is placed diffcrently

on top of' the lyre. This last-mentioned diffcrencc may

however be due to erroneous restoration, for the haiid of the

marble APo//a is missing (as arc some of the fingers of hi'' right

hand) in the photograph kindly sent [o the Museum bv

Jennifer Montagu on 9 October 1967 ('a 'small present from

Spain, just in case you mislay the tcfracotta again'). The god''s

left hand as represented in the (admittedly not entirely

rcliablc) pr]nt by Francc'sco Aquila, plate CXI in the R¢cco/f¢

d¢. i.ZT¢£%e ¢7zfG.c¢e e 77¢odcgr72G, published by Domcnico dc' Rossi

in Rome in 1704, is closer to the terracotta than to the marble

as it is today. The print also shows a plectrum in the god's

right hand which has bccn restored in the marble version with

the open gesture of the APo//a BG/yedGgrc. This plectriim would

be an unlikely addition for Aquila to make ancl it is also

mcntioned by P. A. Maffci in his commentary on the plate.

Maffci (p.104) describes Nocchieri as a 'discepolo dcl Cavalier

Bernini'. He also makes the amazing claim that the APo//o is

a polTrait of the queen of sweden-'e gli fecc nel volto i

lineamenti della medcsima Rcina, che vcramentc dir si potca

la madrc dclle musc'.

A sample was taken from the figure by Mrs Dorcen

Stoncham of the Oxford Research Laboratory for

Archaeology and the History of Art in March 1987 and

thcrmo-luminesccncc tests suggested a firing date betwccn

1677 and 1787 (ref. 381-z-95).

Nocchieri, 4po//a

Aranjucz, Spain


@@69

Possibly NOVE factory near Bassano (flourished from 1760s)

69. Hercules resting

22.2 cms. (height); 18.6 cms. (length of base exc'luding the

projecting foot); 15.7 cms. (width of base)

Hard-paste porcelain. The hollow figure has been filled with cement

to consolidate it. The glaze has been worn in the hair. The figurc's

right foot is discoloured yellow. There is a finng crack beside the

c'lub on the base, another in the figure's left heel, beside the lion

skin over the base to the proper left, and another more serious,

across the back of the base. 'NON I'LU'¢ / ULTRA' is incised in the

model on the side of the base beside the figure's right leg. There

are two holes in the rock-work platform behind the figure. That to

proper left is approximately one centimctrc in diameter-that to

proper right was intended to be the same size but coini.idcs with a

firing crack. '1971.328' is painted in red on the underside of the

figure.

Bcqueathed by W. R .8. Young in October 1971 togcthcr wirh a

considerable collection of porcelain, mostly Mcisscn and Chclsea.

This item was said to have come from the collection of the earl of

Shrewsbury, Ingcstre Hall. Mr Young was a retired solicitor who

was, for some while before his death, a resident of st Cross Hospital,

Winchestcr, a Church of England home for the destitute, from

which he had cc>ncealed his wealth and the value of his collection~

'rcally only a poor jackdaw's collection', 'made since the Hitler War

out of a very small income' (letters to the Department of 27 February

1962 and 3 February 1969).

In Mr Young's own list of his collection made on 14

September 1968 in blue biro on blue paper this figure was

dcscribed as 'Buen Retiro' (? Capo di Monte)'. The 'Bucn

Redro' was struck out by Mr Lowe, in whose hand also the

provenance recorded above was added ('Ijord Shrewsbury').

Young had been a ffiend of George Savage, the well-known

ceramic expert, and the attribution may have come from him.

There is another version of the figure in the collection of sir

Brinsley Ford which comes from the collection of his ancestor

Richard Ford (1796-1858) and has an old label inscribed

'The Famous Torso / of the Bclvederc / in the Vatican / by

Apolonius'. A third version is in the Metropolitan Museum,

New York (Charles E. Sampson Memorial Fund,1981.412;

published Nof4z¢/c 4cg"j.J¢.f¢.o„f (1981-2), 29-30). Of this

last version it has been observed that 'the clear white hard

paste and lustrous glaze arc not those of Doccia or Coz7.i;

the presence of numerous fire-cracks suggests a factory not

yet in control of work of this kind . . . It may have been made

at Le Nove, northwest of venice, in the httle known early

period of that factory' (entry by C. Ie Corbeiller in NOJ¢4/c

Acg#¢.fz.f;o#f cited above). This attribution is strengthened by

the Ashmolean and Ford examples which are of different,

darker body and have a less lustrous glaze. The treatment of

the rock-work base and the robust classicism of the figure is

similar to that of some of the ambitious earthenware groups

produced by the Novc factory - such as the allegorical

ensemble of three virtues in the Musco Civico, Bassano dcl

Grappa (reproduced in J. Fleming and H. Honour, 77/c

Pengttin Dictionary Of Decorative Arts (I:ondon, +977) ' 566).

No explanation for the space and the holes behind Hercules

90

sccms to have been advanced but it might have bcen devised

to enable the figure to bc attached to an ensemble of precisely

this kind. Dcspitc the connection, made already in the carly

nineteenth-century label on the example in the Ford

Collection, with the Bc/pedcrc TorJo (for which 'see No. I 35) ,

the similarity is not remarkable.


@@70

@@71

Probably by Giuscppc PIAMONTINI (1664-1742)

70 and 71. Jupiter riding upon his

eagle and Juno reposing upon the

clouds holding her sceptre and

peacock

44.4 cms. (height of No. 70); 46.5 cms. (height of No. 71); 17.4

cms. (length of'base of 70); 16.9 cms. (width of base of 70);

20.2 cms. (length of base of 71); 18.5 cms. (width of base of 71)

Bronzc with a chestnut brown patina, with very dark brown varnish,

golden brown in parts and perhaps originally golden all over.

Hollow, cast in pieces. In the case of No. 71, the clouds and, in the

case of No. 70, the clouds and eagle arc separately cast, although the

joins are almost invisible (but the right foot of Juno clearly was not

cast with the clouds below). In the case of Juno her sceptre is cast

separately (see below), also her right forearm and her left arm at

contact with drapery in the former case, just below it in the other.

Jupiter's right arm is separately cast and joined just below his

shoulder (the line is almost invisible, but is more apparent in the

Philadclpha version). The head and torso of the Jupiter is cast

separately from the drapery and legs. The upper portion of the body

of Juno is cast separately from the lower part which is probably cast

with the peacock-the join is concealed by the tail of drapery blown

across the upper thighs. Much evidence oftooling; the hair, plumage,

and clouds chiselled and punched.

Given by Mrs J. C. Conway in 1959. Registered on 18 December

1959. The sccptrc of Juno ('which turned up at Spring cleaning

time') given in July 1960. Stated by the Keeper. Ian Robertson, in

the A#»#¢/ RGPorf for 1960 to have 'comc from the Borghcsc

Palace Collection in Romc'. The Borghese provenance must be

considered unproven. It is given for both bronzes (nos. 87 and 91)

and for two others (mos. 88 and 90, a Vc##f ¢7zd C,'#P¢.d and a

B¢ccA#f ¢»J A7.£.¢d7zG) in the Bardini catalogue ((,T¢f¢/oj7#c ¢cJ o4yc£J

d'art ProT)enant de la collection Bardini dont la i)ente aura lieu d

lo"drcf c4cz A4r C¢y¢Jf¢c (Florence,1899) and separate plate

volume, pl. IV). They wcrc sold together as lot 434, Christie's,

London, 5-7 June 1899. The provcnancc was then repeated when

the figures reappeared as 'Jupiter and Juno . . . a pair of L{)uis XIV

groups' lot 174 of the sale at Christie's, London, of 'the Collection

of Fine French Furniture Objects of Art and Porcelain formed by

L. Neumann Esq and removed from 11 Grosvenor Sq.' when they

were purchased by 'Clements' (code for Wertheimer) for £714.

They were offered again at Christie's on 16-17 June 1920-the sale

sale of 'the remaining stock of French Furniture, Porcelain and

Objects of Art of Mr Asher Wcrthcimer Deceased late of 158 New

Bond Strect'. Bought in by Mrs Conway's husband (who had

changed his name from Wertheimer). The bronzes seem always to

have been on display: at first on pedestals in the Fortnum Gallery:

more recently in the Wcldon Gallery.

The two groups were registered and recorded in the 47£7e"¢/

RGPo7? as 'probably the work of Michel Anguicr (I 612-86)

. . related to a considerably larger pair of fire-dogs in the

Wallace Collection, which are by Ar,guicr after Alessandro

Algardi'. An almost identical pair of the figures in the

Philadelphia Museum of Art (Wilstach Collection, W. 68-I -

I and W. 68-I-2) wcrc attributed to Giovanni Battista

92

Foggini. The attribution to Piamon[ini was proposed by

)cnnifcr Montagu in 'Some 'Small Sculptures by Giuscppe

Piamontini', A7?f¢.c4„.Z-a p¢.p¢ (1974), unpaginated. Piamontini

studied undcr Giovanni Battista Foggini and, from 168| untl

1686, attended the Academy founded in Rome by the Grand

Duke Cosimo Ill, working under Ercole Ferrata on tomb

sculpture, narrative relief's, large statues of saints, and portrait

busts. According t(> his own account, groups and statues of

marble and bronzc by him were sent (presumably from

Florcncc) 'in Roma, Bolognia, Prussia, Londra, al Reno,

e Scozzia, e Inghilterra' (Autobiographical note printed in

K. Lankheit, E/oyc7¢£¢.7¢G.fc4c B¢groc4P/¢ffz.4 (Munich, 1962),

doc. 46, p. 232).

Montagu noted that among the models in the inventory

made for the Doccia ceramic factory established in 1743 by

Senator Carlo Ginori werc three attributed to Piamontini: a

'Giove con Aquila, sulla basc', corresponding, she proposed,

with the polychromed porcelain figure in the Museo Civico,

Turin (her fig. 4), and an 'altro Giovc. piu piccolo sedcntc

sull'Aquila' together with a 'Giunone', which, she proposed,

correspond with the bronzcs in the Ashmolean. A Jupiter

group is also mentioned among Piamontini's models by

Baldinucci. A version of the bronze group on a wall bracket

is to bc seen in Thomas Patch's painting of a party of dilettanti

at the home of sir Horace Mann (Chatsworth, Derbyshire).

Ceramic versions would presumably have served a simnar

purpo.se, but the bronzes probably origivated as omancnts

for fire-dogs (Jupiter with his thunderbolt representing the

flames, and Juno the air which a good fire rcquircs), and

were certainly inspired by groups modened by Algardi for this

purpose. The suggestion that the bronzes might bc made in

France is also understandable since Pa'risian founders were to

become masters at joining bronzcs cast in numerous pieces

(see No. 341), a task which is accomplished so skilfully here.

This method of construction is also characteristic of

Florentine foundries, for example, in the bronze versions of

Massimfliano Soldani's groups and reliefs which arc hkely to

bc of the same date as Piamontini's. Soldani's bronzes arc also

similal.ly sharply chiselled and punched. Whether Piamontini

would have directed the casting and palticipated in the

finishing of his bronze is uncertain, but not unlikely given

the practice of other Florentine sculptors of this period.

The only diffcrcnccs bctwccn the groups in Oxford and

Philadelphia, apart from the loss of the sceptre in the

Philadelphia Juno group, and the defective crest on the

peacock in thc Oxford Juiio group, arc minute oncs in the

pattern of the tooling-joins and solder smear are also more

easily seen in the Philadelphia groups partly because metal

and varnish arc less dark.


@@72

p|FjRlNO DA VINCI (1530-53)

72. Ugolino, imprisoned by the

Arno, with his sons and grandsons,

visited by Famine

62 crns. /height); 4.5 clns. (u'idth); see also below

white wraLx discoloured to a yellow cre{1m colour, The reverse is

partly h(>llowed.. the hollows corresponding to the highest relief on

the side \'iewed. This reveals that the wax was cast; but it was also

cxtcnsivcly modelled, for many details, most notably the fingers of

Arno's left hand on hls urn or those of the right hand of the seated

\,oLith whose knees touch the left-hand border of the composition,

.'rc' ct>mplctcly undercut, and the entire surface has been sharply

tooled, as is clear on close Inspection in a good light and still more

st, under magnificatlon. There is a network of cracks on the left-h.'

nd sidc' of the relief: from the left elbow of the personification of

Fdminc to [hc nght shoulder of the scated youth already rcferred

tt)' c'cross the left kncc of the other seated youth behind him, and

(\rery fine) along the left thigh of the reclining youth; across the

rock\J nver bank and river in the lower left comer; across the left foot

of Ugolino. The fingers, excepting the index finger, of Arno's left

hand have been broken off and rcfixed. Incised on the rocky river

bank. 'DAN1'F. XXXIII INFF',RNO'. Some spoonings of wax have been

rcmoved from the rcversc of the relief perhaps to scrvc, reworked,

d' i'ement ft>r repairs-a more recent (cleaner coloured) wax is

apparciit along the major cracks. The irregularly rectangular relief

is fixcci into an olcl wooden frame with cement and old hand-made

mil'' The front of the wa.x is cut back within its rough edges to a

shdrp edge forming an approximate rectangle of the dimensions

glvcn abo\Jc. The relief is mounted in a heavy glazed walnut frame

with partially gilt egg and dart mouldings probably made by the

Museum in the 1940s (scc No. 55). A letter from Arthur Evans to

r'ortnum of' 5 November 1897 mentions that 'its dirt was dreadful

but I 'uggestecl a gcnt[e application of soda & water which has had

mt>st successful results'.

I)cpo'sited in the Ashmolean Museum by the Radcliffe Trustees in

189z prc'sented tt) the Univcrsiry of Oxford in 1841 by Phillp

A. Duncan, Keeper of the Ashmolean, to whom it had been

rtresented by his fncnd Prince Hoare (1755-1834), the artist, who

hacl inherited it from William Hoarc (1706-92), who may have

acquirecl it from Henry Trench. 'Mr Trent a paintcr' is said in John

Breval's Re77¢¢7~4f o# Scpe7~¢/ P¢77f ofE#yopc of 1738 to have bought

thls 'noble Bats-relicf'' over to England 'some years ago'-this was,

Apparently, shortly before 1719 when Tonatha.n Richardson the Elder

Fwh:+lshed his D¢scourse on the Dignity, Ceitalrty, Pleasure and

^dvanta.qe o.f the Sctence of Couno¢sseurship in which ('pp. 32-3) he

ml'11tlons the relief as in the hands of 'Mr Trench, a Modest,

Illgcnit>us Painter, lately arriv'd from his long Studies in Italy'. (The

t'lllY Problcm with this provenance, apart from any firm evidence of

\\.hl'rc' Hoire acquired it, is that ncithcr Breval nor Rlchardson

'Pcclf\r that Trench's relief is of'Wax.)

\'asari descnbed how Picrino, the nephew of Ijeonardo da

\'lnci, studied with Bandine|li and then with Tribolo, by

\'.ht)in hc \vas recognized as a prodigy, and how Luca Martini,

'1 Scholarly nobleman and one of Duke Cosimo's leading

Collrticrs, made him his proteg€. Martini commissioned a

'mrbll' rclicf of C¢7~G.f£ ¢f zT4c Co/%7%# when Pierino was less

than 17 (1± x 3 G"ccG.a, possibly to bc identified wlth the

rather smaller but obviously cut-down oval F/¢gc//¢£¢.o7¢ relief

at the Nelson Atkins Museum, Kansas City, 51-3, generally

regarded as by Vinccnzo Danti). Martini also introduced

Pierino to Francesco Bandini who took him to Rome where

hc cnjoyed great success (and made, among much else, a wax

copy of Michclangelo's A4lofcf as a present for Martini). Then

hc summoned him to Pisa, of which city Cosimo had made

him P/opped¢.fo7'c in 154z and gave him several commissions

thcrc. Of the latter commissions the most private one, an

idea of Pierino's own but reflecting Martini's scholarly

commentary on Dante, and his interest in Pisa, was a relief

illustrating the fate, in a Pisan prison, of the Florentine Count

Ugohno dclla Gherardesca recounted by Dante in the thirty-third

Canto of the J7¢/e"o. Vasa'ri describes this work at

length, mentioning also that Pierino began work on it at the

same tinie that he carved the river god now in the Ijouvre

presented by Martini to the Duchess Eleonora (who

presented it to her brother). The relief must date from after

15 October 1548 when, as Jonathan Nelson has pointed out

to me, Martini borrowed an ancient manuscript version of

Dante and commenced his annotations.

Vasari specifies that the model was in wax and was

subsequently cast in bronze to the delight of his patron.

Whether the casting was managed by Picrino himself may be

doubted (Vasari records that the children Pierino had

modelled for the rim of the Hcrcules fountain by Tribolo at

the Medici Villa at Castcllo had been cast by Z,anobi

Lastricati). The emphasis placed on the wax model by Vasari

suggests that it was valued in its own right and also that such

a model survived the casting process. If the oriornal wax model

was the one employed in thc casting then it would of course

have been lost in the process, but it seems most unlikely that

the sculptor would iiot have retained a replica of this original

wax model, not least as a precaution ag nst a foundry

accident. Such a replica would perhaps have been worked up

from an approximate cast made after the first model; and that

is exactly what this wax would seem to be. This hypothesis

would be supported by the survival of other wax models

preparatory to bronze reliefs of this period, and one does not

have to look far to find examples: the models in red wax

(Victoria and Albert Museum, 328, 329, 330-1879) for the

reliefs in the Grimaldi Chapel of s. Franccso di Castcllctto in

Genoa commissioned from Giambologna in the late 1570s

are as highly finished as this relief (a.Ithough in less good

condition), but cannot bc reproductions of the bronzes since

they differ from them in minor respects. On the other hand

wax reliefs were also cast for collectors as alternatives to casts

in terracotta, reproducing popular works also available in

bronze or precious metal. Thc. export of such casts in red,

black, and white wax is mentioned as an important part of

the sculptor's business in the litigation concerning Cobbert's

models in Rome in 1609 (A. Bertolotti, 4rf¢.f}; /o7#4¢yd¢. ¢

Ro77¢¢ (Milan,1881), ii.123ndl). If this wax does not come

into this category then the only other explanation for its

existence is that it was prepared for casting in bronze. This

would incidentally cxplain thc hollowed reverse, designed to

avoid uneven thickncss and consequent strain in cooling. This

is what Fortnum believed it to be (letter tt> Arthur F,vans of

12 December 1897).

Even if this wax is made after the bronze, howevcr, it has

been finished with quite extraordinary care. When examined

closely, and especially under magnification, every detail has

bccn tooled and the undercutting is formidable. It has

sometimes been described as a later cast, or even as an

aftercast, by careless scholars, or by dealers. Many of the

latter and some of the former have made large claims for the

other surviving versions of the relief in terracotta, gesso, and

marble, which, however, all omit or slur details included with

crisp clarity in the wax-none of them, for example, includes

the long, very low relief, fingernail of the pointing hand of

Famine; they all either exclude or confuse the lion's head

peeping out beside Arno's urn; and, perhaps most

significantly, none of them includes any of the undercutting.

Furthermore, when details arc measured it will be found that

all these other reliefs arc considerably smaller, as would bc

expected if they were cast from moulds made after the original

bronze, or, in the case of the marble versions, copied from

models made in this way, for bronze and terracotta both

contract when cooling.

Of the other versions in terracotta one is in the Ashmolean

Museum (No. 73) and the other has long been in the collection

of the Gherardesca family (that is Ugolino's family) in

Florence. The latter was exhibited at the A4loJ}rc dcz. }cforz.

fGg7€f¢. dc//c c#Jc¢o7ic„£¢.„c in Florence, June-July 1960 (no.

172, pp. 71 and 118 in the catalogue). The rcliefwas cngraved

as early as 1782 (see F. Yatcs, 'Transformations of Dante's

Ugdino' , Jottrnal Of the Warbttrg and Cottrtauld Institwte§

(1951), pl.17b). This print is interesting in that it extends

the composition to clarify the fact that the figures are on an

island in the Arno. The Gheradesca relief is illustrated,

togcthcr with what appears to be its sixteenth-century frame,

in P#"#4eo# (1960), 18, p. cxix. Although superior claims

have been made for the Ghcrardesca version, which has

somctimcs even been described as the original bronze, it is

little different from the Ashmolean's terracotta (which also

has a Florentine provenance), and is no more sharp in its

details. It seems also to bc the same size. In the wax version

the foot of the Amo is 6.85 cms. in length but in the

Ashmolean's terracotta it is 6.5 cms. In the wax the distance

between the left shoulder of the youth with his back to us

and the uppermost part of Ugolino's left arm is 42.35 cms.,

whereas it is 41.3 cms. in the Ashmolcan's terracotta.

The plaster or gesso versions appear to have been cast after

these terracottas. One such was lot 36 in the sale at Christie's

on 3 July 1823 of the studio of Nollckcns. One, which is very

coarse, is in the Bargello ('mcntioned by some German

authorities to bc an oriSnal marble', C. F. Bell notes in the

margin of Fortnum's large manuscript catalogue). Another,

rather bcttcr in quality, belonged to Michael Hall Fine Arts,

6 East 79th Street, New York, in March 1969 (when

adverdsed in the 8%7i/¢.»gro" A4:¢g¢z;"c, p. cxvii). Most bronze

casts also look like aftcrcasts-ne was in a private collection

in Cheltenham in September 1976 when it was taken to the

Museum-in this version Arno and the reclining youth's

genitalia were concealed by bullrushes or drapery; another of

this character was sold at Christic's, 9 July 1979, lot 90, as

'A north Italian bronze plaque of an al]cgorical scene after

Pietro da Barga'. The one cxccption, which will bc considered

separately below, is the cast in the collection of the duke of

Devonshirc which Charles Avery was the first to propose as

possibly the original.

A marble version, acquired by a New York dealer at auction

in New York in 198z is a work of some quality. It includes

the teeth of Famine, although not those in the mouth of the

dcspcrate youth nearest to Ugolino, but does not attempt

the undercutting of thc. fingers, and does not possess, in the

treatment of the waves of the Arno or thc curls of hair, a

plasticity that matches that in the wax version. There are also

minor differences tending to simplify the details-the reeds

by the river side arc not clearly rceds for instance and are

cxcluded from the hair of Arno.

The relief was sometimes attributed, in the fightecnth and

even nineteenth century, to Michelangelo and l'rince Hoarc

retained this attribution. The Richardsons evidently

entertained doubts about this when they publlshed the French

edition of their Wo#4f /T7i¢;fg' dc /¢ Pc4.7¢f#7ic (Amsterdam,

I 728), ii. 13840). Bottari was also to do so in his edition

ofvasari of 1759ndo (iii. 354) as was Charles Rogers in his

translation of the J7e/c7'7ao of 1782 (pp.128-9).

The disagrecablc drawing purporting to be a preparatory

idea for the relief which was purchased by the Ashmolean

in 1963 (Sothcby's, London,12 March 1963, lot 18) is

hardly of a quality one would expect from Picrino.

However, it, and another drawing of similar character, are

curious in that they come closer to Vasari's description of

the relief than the relief itself does (an observation I owe to

Charles Avcry).

It remains to consider the bronze version at Chatsworth.

This is set with lead into pedestal no. 99a. This pedestal,

which is of oval plan, now supports the colossal bust of the

Emperor Napoleon by Canova, but in the inventory of 1905

it is described as supporting the G7iey¢oz#¢d ¢»d PappG.eJ by

Joseph Gott and it was clearly designed to do so. Gott's

sculpture was one of the marbles which arrived at Chatsworth

from Rome in 1825 and the pedestal is likely to have been

made soon afterwards. It is of local stone in common with

several others into which the 6th duke, characteristically, had

miscellaneous pieces of coloured marble, and even in one case

some antique coins, cmbedded. The duke does not mention

the bronze relief in his own description of his collection which

suggests that he set little store by it, and perhaps hc did not

buy it himself. If hc did inherit it, then it is quite likely to

have come, along with much else at Chatsworth, from the

collection of Lord Burlington. It is intcrcsting in this

connection that Trench, who is credited with importing the

relief of LTgo/¢."a into Britaln~in accounts which do not

describe it as a wax-was a prot6g€ of Burhngton. Vertuc

records that hc came from Rome, where hc had studied With

Chiari, to I,ondon but enjoyed no success as a history painter

and so went aga]n to Italy for several years, returning to

ljondon in October 1725 ('The Vertue Notebooks', iii,

W¢/Po/c SocG.eey, 20 (19334), 25.) The account suggests that

he \\;as likc'Iy to Sell What hc had collected, and if so Burlington

\\/ould have been likely to buy it.

This brolly,c is 65 Cms. high (but the topmost edge is

L'mbedded in the Stone Slot in which it is set) and 46.5 cms.

\\idc. |t extends further to all sides than any other version,

c'spccially along the top where thcrc are two holes presumably

for attaching it which have been plugged. There is a bad

L'asting flaw in the Waves on the lower border of the relief to

I,roper right which must once have been filled with wax.

tlt|iough it has been impossible to inspect the rear of the

|,ronzc the character of this flaw suggests that this is a lost-

\',a.\ i.ast. Every detail found in the Ashmolean's wax is also

found here-including the lettering on the rocky bank, the

ITALIAN scuLPTURF,s: NAMED ARTlsT

lion's head in the lower right corner, the sharp-edged reeds

flowing over the biceps of Arno, the fingernails of F'amine.

AIno's left hand is not undercut but it is in the same attitude.

It is hard to consider this as anything other than Pierino's

original. The measurement of Arno's foot is the same as in

the wax; other measurements are a little larger in some cases

and smaller in others This does not clarify Its relationship

with the wax, but clearly both it and the wax are to bc

distinguished in size as well as quality from all other known

versions. Charles Avery has proposed to me that the wax was

perhaps cast in the eighteenth century from the Chatsworth

bronze but that does not explain why some details (most

notably Amo's left hand) are finer in the wax.


@@73

After PIERINO DA VINCI (1530-53)

73. Ugolino, imprisoned by the

Arno, with his sons and grandsons,

visited by Famine

61 cins. (height); 45 cms. (width)

Terracotta of a grey red colour. Cast, but with some lines tooled

before the clay was fired-.g. in the contour of the reclining youth.

There is a chip on Ugolino's left knee. The relief has been broken

into three part.„ a rough line, passing under Ugolino's right arm

and over the head of the youth beside him which then divides to

pass up to the pointing hand of Famine and down to the upper

chest of the prominent seated youth and to the back of the youth

behind him, indicates the repair; there is a certain amount of filling

and applied colour at points on this line. 'S.28.ff' is written in black

ink on the rocks in the lower left corner. There is a seal with arms

and coronet on the reverse.

Lcnt bv C. D. E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888, given by him later

in the same year. S. 28 in his catalogucs. Purchased by him in

Florence in the winter of 1864-5 for fl2. 'For many years in the

house of a Dcl Agata in Via Ghibellina' in Florence.

See No. 72.


@@74

iTnkiiowii foiindcr

itrt,|it'bl}' after PIF,RIT\TO DA VINCI (1530-53)

74. Male nude probably intended

for Adam tempted

r L.Ills (hc'ight); 9.5 Cms. (height of pedestal); 8.4 cms. (width

.iLicl lcng{h tjf pedestal)

i}rt)n/.e with .1 pale grccn [o grey brown natural patina darkened in

tire ho||ows' co\'cred Wlth a \Varm golden translucent lacquer

['r.iser\'ed in imn}' areas. IIollow, lost-wax, cast. The surface covcred

\\,th \rcr}J fine wire-brushed lines following the contours except oil

the figi"c''s ngllt f'orearm where a fine joint may just be perceived:

th„ part was e\'idently Separately cast and given the lai'k of continuity

t,i' fiii|sh \\Jc's doLll)tless a later replacement. There is a small firing

L'r''L'k lil the bicep (>f the figure'S left arm. Plugs (presumably

L'['|„'iiig littlcs mddc by c'haplets) can bc detected above the figure's

nLQ|" .irni' .'lso .1bo\'C his left knee Where thcrc is a vc'ry slight crack.

T|w figui.i' i's inoulltl'd o11 a inolllded pedestal, square in plan, of

ii,'httgan} \cneer of three. tones, the recessed panels alid mouldings

dirke't. Thi. lighter, golden wood matches the lacquer of the bronze.

'G 421' is painted in black.

I,Liiit b\' C. D. F,. Fortmlm on 20 March 1888. Given later in lhe

'.'nw v;ar. 8. 421 ln his catalogues 'Bought in London' (according

to hi''large imnuscript catalogue), but more precisely 'Rought at

(hmtie' \.'i'cording to his eal-lier notebt)ok catalogue), presumably

iftcr 1857 u'hcn the preliminary catalogue, in which it is not

Hii'liiili'd. w'as compiled.

Ft]rtiium spcculated that this 'nudc man walking and in

dn\it>us attitudc' might bc intended as Adam. Certainly the

figure sccms to be responding to another as in numerous

ii'stani'cs of paired nudes, representing Adam and Eve at the

Illomcnt of their temptation or, morc commonly, of his

ti'mpti'tion, in prints and statuettes of bronze and boxwood,

iirodill-ed in the first half of the sixteenth c'entury north of the

Al[islhc pair of bronzc figures attributed to Ifonhard

I\hgr, lot 32 at Sotheby's, London, 10 December 1987; thc'

iidir of boxwood figures attributed to Conrad Meit in the

Kunsthistoriches Museum, Vienna (295; 9888/9); the pair

ttt' boxwood figures attributed to Christoph Weidith in the

'.'ml' museum (317; 3965 and 3967); or those attributed to

D.'11icl Maiich in the Cleveland Museum of An (46.429 and

+6.491), t'rc' good examples of the statucttcs. Such groups

\\l'ri' Also found in Italy at least in the second half of the

l'l'ntllr}' in bronzc (see W. Bode, J£¢/G.¢7? Byo#zc 'S£¢£%Gr£GJ a/

'/" K4'7J¢G.J.f¢%c4' (London,1907-12), ii. 234, pl. CLX; ii. 20,

Pl (',XljvIII; iii. 23, pl. CcljvII), and there was also the

lmrble group ot'Adam and Eve made by Bandin€11i in 1551

t'" the Duomo in Florence (Museo Nazionalc, Florence).

Thl' sclilptor is inore difficult to guess than the 'subject.

I-°rtnlHll i'.it[iloguc'' the figure as 'the work probably of a

!{°'d'llllth 'i-'ilptor of' the later XVI ce|itury, a follower of the

'l'hools of Gio: di Bologna or of Bcn° Ccllini'. Bell however

rl'l'Orded in the margin of the large catalogue tha.t Bode

'L'ggL.'tccl th'it it u'<is r'rcnch. Ian Robcrtson later wrote thcrc

t'Tat thl. figuri. \vas 'probat)|y by Hubcrt Gerhard'. A northern

I \'r°Pl'''ll 'lrtlst has generally been suggested slnce then,

perhaps because of the bearcl which compares very closely, for

cxamplc, with that givcii to Adam by Zai'harias Hegcwald in

his marble groilp of 1630-1 (dcstroyed 1945 bllt reproduced

I . F'asmusscn ' Barochplactih in N tjrddeut§chland (Museum

fur Kunst und Gewerbc, Hamburg, 1977), 46), and also

because its cxtremc precision and beauty of surface are

characteristic of documelited German court gold'smiths. Hans

Weihrauch 'suggested that it is by a Nctherlandish goldsmith

and ttf e1600 (E#7iap¢¢.jc¢c 87io7¢zc#¢f#c#e7¢ (Bnmswick,

1967), 363, pl. 439).

There seems, howevcr, no reason why the statuette should

not bc, as Fortnum proposed, Italian. AJthough ideal nude

figures were less likely to be influenced in Italy by modern

fashions in facial hair, rhc beard here is not unlike that which

Bandinelli gave to his Ad¢7#. There is also plcnt}7 of evidence

that cxquisitc and miniature work was lnadc by Italian

goldsmiths even if names and works can seldom be matched.

The golden variiish employed on this figure is also known to

have b€cn popular in Flt>rcncc in the late sixteenth century.

If wc search f(]r other sixteenth-century 'statuettcs which arc

of comparable size and finish, two, with an Italian provenance,

present themselves: the B¢cc¢%f and the Po7ceo„¢ (or Vc7z"J)

in the Ca d'Oro in Venice (iios. 58 and 59). Not only is the

size thc same-xactly the same in the case of the V'c»%f or

Po7»/)#¢-but this size is a most unusual one, so a coincidence

is improbable. Furtherinore thc type of varnish and the

distinctive wire-brush finish is identical. The style is very close:

the treatment of facial fcaturcs, details such as fingernails and

hair on the Ad¢7„ and the Vc77ac or J'oowo„¢ are the same.

Furthermore the quality is the same: the A¢¢77¢ and the VG#z#

or Po74¢o7¢¢ are among the most beautiful small bronzcs to

have survived from the sixteenth century.

It has recently been demonstrated by Peter Mellcr ('Un

gruppo di bronzetti di Picrino da Vinci dcl 1547',

Mitteilttngen de5 Kunsthistorischen lnstituts in Florenz' \8

(1974), 251-72) that the two bronzes in the Ca d'Oro were

originally fixed to a handst>me bronze basc (n(>. 60) in the

same collection decorated with the Stcmma of the Martini

family (to which Pierintj's chief patron belonged) upon which

is chiselled the date 'M.D.Xlj.VII' (1547) and 'OPERA . DI .

PIERO . DA . VINCI.' It may seem hard to understand how a

figure supposed to rcprescnt 4d¢ee can have any relation

with these pagan figures, but the Po7#o7&¢ looks very much

like an Eve, as Meller, with no knowledge of a possible

partner in Oxford, astutely obscrved-and hc even spcculated

that Pierino might originally have thought of creating an

Adam and Eve group (ibid. 259nd2 and n. 19). When the

Ad¢ow is sccn, or rather imagined, beside the Ca d'Oro female

nude the relationship has indced far more interest, formally

and as narrative, than that which exists in the pagan grouping.

The B¢cc¢#f exists in only one {>ther vcrsion (formerly in

Bcrlin~scc Mellcr, op. cit. 263) but the female bronze

statuette exists in two other versions, one in the I,ouvre

(Donation Thiers no. 87) and one f{)rmcrly in the Benda

Collection in Vienna (Bode, op. cit., ii, pl. CI,, p. 20), and

101

ITALIAN SCUI,PTURES: NAMED ARTIST

t)nc t)f these could have originally bccn rhc Ei7c f't>r the

Ashmolcan's 4de7". The Louvre bronze retains exactly the

same finely scratched surface and colour bttth of varnish ancl

of natural patina as the Ashmolean's figurc. That a sculptor

in this period could have sanctioned the change of a work

originally conccived as L',\'e into a Venus or Pomona (or vice

versa) nced not surprise us: Alessandro Vittoria in a will dated

7 November 1570 made spcc'ial mention of 'La mia statua di

bronzo' which could serve as a Sebastian or a Marsyas

according to taste (G. Gerola, 'Nuovi documenti vencziani

so AIcsszLndro V-ittoriaL. , Atti del Real htit-uto Veneto di

Sc¢.e#zc, J,c#cye ed 47?¢., 84 (1924-5), 348).

There is one other bronze statucttc which might be rclated

to this group by Picrino; it is a female nude in the rcservc

collection of the Art In'stituti' of Chicago (1964-1159)-a

figure of mystcrious idcntity, dcscribed as a L#cycf¢.¢ and

holding open a wound in her breast. This is very siinilar in

102

character to the Ca d'Oro fcmll' although less Well prcscrved

in its siirfacc. 1[ is 7.4 cms. high, bllt this inl'ludes an integral

base and if that is cxcluded the si7.e i'' 17. I cms.~ncar|y

identical. It is also po'ssible to imagine her serving as a

companion for the Ashmolean Museum 4d¢77¢. It should

also bc pointed out that the remarkable pair of polychrome

woodcn statuettes rcprcscnting EPS.77¢cfcJ and P¢7z4Zor¢ by E|

Greco (Prado, Madrid) must have been dcrived from the

Ashmolean male niide and the Ca d'Oro t'cmalc one, and

wcrc indced t]ncc supp(_)sed to bc of Adam and Eve (Conde

de las Infantas, 'Dos csculturas dcl Grcco', A7.c¢¢.p¢.o cfp¢¢o/

4Jc ¢#c,18 (1945),193-200).

The inscription on the bronzc basc in the Ca d'Oro should

not bc taken as proof that Pierino was rcsponsiblc for the

ca'sting or cvcn finishing of the bronze figures once attached

to it. There arc certainly cases of such names placed boldly on

bronzes which arc known to have bccn cast by independent

ITAI,TAN SCULPTURES: NAMED ARTIST

L.raftsnic'il (Balldinclli, One Of Picrino's masters, is a case in

I,oi,it). Vas.iri mentions that thc' i'hildrcn which Pierino

nM,di'|led t't)r the rim of the Hcrculcs fountain by Tribolo at

the Medici Villa at Castello h.1d been cast by Zanobi Lastricati,

d,,d it wt>uld seem likely that he was dcpcndent up(>n specialist

t't,Lindcrs and goldsmiths for the cxccution of subsequent

\\,ork in this medium. The only other surviving bronze which

has bccn convincingly attributed to him is the candlestick

in the form t)f a miniature tripod in the British Museum

(u. Middeldorf, 'Notcs on Italian Bron7.es', B#r/G."gfo#

+f¢L„¢zz.% (Dce1938), 204-9) the finish of which is not very

c|ttse I(> that of the Ca d'Oro figures.

r'inallv, i[ must bc asked how thc A¢¢7% fits into Pierint]'s

[.,,}77-c. The answer ha.s to bc that one would ne\Jer have

guessecl that it was b}' him, any more than one would have

giiessed that the female nude or the B¢cc¢#f in the Ca d'Oro

\\reri- h}' him. Comparisons, for example between the hair of

the 4d¢7„ and that of the youths in the rgo/¢.7„ relief (No.

72) or of the A?.t7Gr God in the I,ouvre, can bc made which

reduce one's surprise, but one aspect of the figure remains

unexpected-the alert, nervous tension and arrested

movement which depends upon the figure's unbent right leg.

Pierino in his other works consistently avoided givng figures

an erect posture and had indeed an unusual preference for

sagalng poses.

Peter Mellcr, who accepts that the .4d¢ow must have been

made as a companion with the E'pc/Poeeo"a, has proposed

to me that it might be the work of the sanc., surely

Netherlandish, artist who created the exquisite statuette of Sf

/o¢7c (presumably from a C7.%c¢¢:¥¢.o7e group) in the Bargello,

Florence (Inv. 741). Also striking is the relationship with the

battered and highly restored 4d¢7" by Stoldo Lorenzi in the

Casteno Sforzesct], Milan (038).


@@75

Bartolomco PINF.LI,I (1781-1835)

75. Man baiting a bull with mastiffs

35 cms. (height, approximate because the base is sunk in the

wooden plinth); 41 cms. (length of rough integral oval base);

45.8 cms. (length of.wooden plimh); 38.1 cms. (width of wooden

plinth)

Terracotta of a pale cream to gre},'-pink colour. Niimerous minor

firing cracks but few chips missing. The end of the bull's right horn

is missing. There is an old repair where the man's hand grips the

forehead of the biill. The back legs of the bull have been broken

and recently rcpalred. 'Pinelli fece 1827. is incised boldly and

cursively on the rim of the rough in[cgral oval base; [lie '2' is easily

mistaken for an '0'. The group is mounted on a plinth of pale beech.

Given by Mrs Harvey in 1910 from thc. collection of her husbaLnd

the late H. A. Harvey of C',hrist Church. The rcccnt repairs were

carr]ed out by Mr Saleh in thc 1970s.

I'inelli sccms always to have modclled on a small scale in clay,

picking up the Art from his father, an impovcrished maker of

cheap devotional images; but his terracottas only attracted

attention from the public, and perhaps only received serious

attention from him, after his drawings and prints came into

great demand in the years following the si]cccssful publication

1809 of his etchings t]f the picturesque costumes of the

Campagna. His earliest dated terracotta is of 1812, and most

104

of hi's surviving works are dated bctwccn 1828 and 1835. |n

1834 hc published etchings of some of them under the title

'Gruppi pittoreschi modcllati in terra-cotta da Bartolomeo

plNELl,I ed incisi all'acquafortc da lui medesimo', consisting

of a frontispiece and twenty plates. An additional eight plates

were added to the series in ]835. The subjects tend to be

carriival Pif errari, the Saltarello, Brigands, or simply

Co#f%d¢.7?c with their children (scc G. Incisa della Rocchctta,

B¢7?a/o7"eo Pz.7Gc% (Palazzo Braschi, Rome,1956)-a

catalogue t>f twenty-two signed sculptures all from Roman

collections which also includes an edition of the biography of

Pinclli by Oreste Raggi). The Ashmolcan's group is typical

of a heroic tendency in Pinclli's trcatmcnt of traditional

popular activity which recalls some of the studies G€ricault

had made ten years previously in Rome. It makes Pinclli's

relatively rare treatments of classical subject-matter easier to

understand. (For this latter aspect of his art see the Slded

terracottas of /a4P¢.}c7' and /#7" dated I 815, published by

A. Gonzalez-Palacios (I/ fe7#P¢.o dc/g"ffo (Roma e il regno

dcllc Due Sicilie) (Milan,1984), i. 179), and for Pinelli's neo-classicism

generally see id., 'La grammatica ncoclassica', in

A7z£;c¢¢.£¢ p¢.v¢ (Scpt. 1973), and M. Fagiolo and M. Marini,

Bartolomeo Pinelli 1781-1835 e il St4o tem|)o (Buome. \983).

102nd, for the watercolours and line drawings of 'Episodi

della storia Greca' dated 1820-1, and 141 for his treatment

of the Niobids.)


@@76

Imitator of Angclo Gabricllo PI(') (1690-1770)

76. Virgin and Child

25.9 cms. (height); 20.8 cms. (width); L4 cms. (thickness of

relief); 20.5 cms. (height of pedestal); 24.3 cms. (length of

pedestal); 13.8 cms. (width of pedestal)

Terracotta of a pale pink colour. old colouring seems [o have been

rcmoved upon acquisition, but traces of blue and white pigment

remain in th.. hollows of the drapery. There are also traces of gilding

around the edges of the ground, possibly from a frame. There is a

crack passing through the entire relief to proper left of centre, most

evident across the back of the Virgin's hand. Therc is another crack

in the ground to proper right, also small Iosses from the edges of

the drapery and numerous tiny cracks and scratches. There is an

irregular edge cut back all around the relief for the rebate of a frame.

This looks as if i[ has been cut out ttf the relief after firing. The

relief was appaLrently lnounted on a velvet-covered plinth and

'surround shortly before acquisition but this was probably rcplaced

because the dark green velvet is one much used by the Muscum.

The pedestal of gilded wood with rather coarse foliatc C-scrolls

against a field of blue-grey colour is likely to have been supplied by

the dealer.

Bought with the aid of the Blakiston Fund from Messrs. P. & D.

Colnaghi, Old Bond Street, London, in 1964. The purchase was

discussed by the Keeper, Tan Robertson, in a letter to Roddy Thcsiger

of colnaghi's on 27 February 1964. Robertson agreed to make the

first half payment in April. He was keen that the relief should be

included in the gallery's spring exhibition P#¢.7¢}¢.7¢gf ky O/d A4l¢f£G7tf

where it was no. 8 (illustrated as pl. VI in the catalogue). The relief

was registered on 10 June.

The rehef was acquired with an attribution to Giuseppe Mazza

and Robertson pubhshed it in the A7?7?#¢/ Rcporf as 'of about

1700, and perhaps cxccuted during the artist's visit to Vcnice'.

He added that 'it offers features of handling comparable with

the initialled oval relief of the same subject formerly in the

Kaiser Friedrich Museum, Bcrlin' (reproduced in A. E.

Brinckmann, B¢7ioc4-Bo2;2;c#¢. (Benin,1923), i. 150, pl. 66).

There are simila.rities with the terracotta reliefs signed 'G.M.'

which arc attributed to Ma7jza, but there is no very close

connection with the relief Robcrtson singled out, and his

precision of dating was ovcr-confident. There were other

sculptors from Bologna working in terracotta in this style and

on this scale among whom the sculptor who succeeded Mazza

as the leading artist in terracotta and stucco there, Angelo

Gabriello Pi6 (1690-1770), seems worthy of consideration in

connection with this rehef. (For Mazza see E. RIcc6mini,

Ordine e vaghez,za: Scultura, in Emilia nell'etd barocca

(Bologna,1972), 90-115 and elscwhcre, and for Pi6, id.,

Vaghez;za e furore: La scultura del §ettecento in Emila

(Bologna,1977), 50nd9.) The curvaceous cyclids of the

Virgin, her slightly pointed nose, the flat ends of her tapering

fingers, and the very small mouth of the Christ Child arc au

idiosyncrasies to bc observed in I'i6, although in less marked

form. The work does not, howcvcr, seem quite good enough

to be by him.

The highly attractive handling of the drapery, its softness

of texture combining with the infantile and feminine flesh

106

with which its continuous flutter contrasts, conceals only

briefly the uncertain managcmcnt of the planes-the flatness

of thc Virgin's right arm and the uncomfortably abrupt

forcshortcning of her left arm. Also unsatisfactory is the

uncertain direction of the Vlrgin's gaze and the tight and

truncated character of the composition, especially where her

left arm is cut off and the drapery stops below the arms.

However, if, as there is reason to suspect, the relief was cut

down, then wc wt>uld t]riginally have uiidcr'stt]od whcther she

was sitting or standing, a St John or a donor would have

made sense of her gaze, and the compo'sition would appear

less cramped. Most intimate devotional reliefs of this type

made in Bologna were oval.

Samples were taken by Mrs Dorecn Stoneham of the

Oxford Research Laboratory for Archaeology and the History

of Art in April 1974 and a therm(>-lumincsccnce test indicated

that the rclicf was fired between 1583 and 1788 (ref. 81-m-

63). Another sample taken in October 1986 indicated that

it was fired betwccn 1606 and 1736 (ref. 38l-y-37).

ITALIAN SCLTLPTURF,S: NAMED ARTIST


@@77

@@78

Probably by Franccsco Antonio Franzoni (1734~1818) and

Lorenzo Cardclli (active 1770-1810)

After designs by Giovanni Battista PIRANESI (1720-78)

77 and 78. Pair of candelabra, one involving three cranes and a kneeling faun (77) and the other three elephant heads and an altar

decorated with reliefs of deities (78), both supported by three lion's legs

244.1 cms. (height of No. 7z excluding marble pedestal); 243.9

cms. (height of No. 78, excluding marble pedestal); 41 cms.

(height of each marble pedestal); 44.5 cms. (diameter of the

acanthus cup crowning each candelabrum); 68.5 cms. (height of

the cranes in 77).

White marble, of a vanety of types, with much of the surface abraded.

Each candelabrum is composed of numerous parts and iron has

been used extensively in assembling them. In some areas the rusting

cramps are evident on the surface, e.g. in the tail of the crane

standing below the faun's tail in No. 7z in one corner of the altar

stage in No. 78, and on the plinth between paws of the lions and

the central support in No. 78. The question of which parts of the

candelabra are ancient is discussed below. Piranesi was capat)1e of

breaking and rejoining the modern work to make it look ancient

which complicates this discussion, but there has also been accidental

damage (and perhaps vandalism) since the candelabra arrived in

Oxford. The breaks in the legs of the cranes, for instance, arc

relatively recent, to judge by the modern adhesive all too evident on

them. It is interesting that there were originally two struts betwccn

each pair of crane legs-struts left by the restorer to improve the

sculpturc's chances of surviving unbroken in transport. These should

have been carefully cut away by a mason when the candelabra were

erected in the Radcliffe Camera. One remains; the others have been

knocked off, leaving little branches on the legs. The stage of No. 77

which consists of a relief of masks framed by eagles has been pitted

all over perhaps as an attempt at 'distressing'. The upper surface of

the plinth of No. 77 has bccn very coarsely tooled and what looks

like a letter 'a' and celtainly a lcttcr 'b' have bccn crudely chisclled

on it. The points of the beaks of all the cranes and the ends of the

trunks of two of the three elephants have been broken off and lost.

Both unmoulded marble pedestals are chisclled with the following

text, blacked for emphasis: 'ACADEMIAE oXoNIENSI / HoC /

ROVANAE . ELF,GANTIAE . EXEMpljA Fux . RUDERIBUS . VII,lAE /

IMPERATORIS HADRIANAE.TIBURTINAE / NUPF,R' EFFOSSUM /

ROGERus NF.WDIGATE.BARONE.I|.US / GRATo.ANIMo / D I).D /

A.D MCCLXXVI'

The candelbra were bought in Rome on 6 May 1775 by Sir Roger

Newdigate from Piranesi for I,000 Roman jc"dz., shipped to

London through the agency of Thomas Jenkins, who also acted as

Ncwdigate's banker, in the same year, and prcsented to the

University in the following year, as declared by the lfltin Inscriptions.

A bill for minor restoration, for transport, for the pedestals (in plain

marble, unmoulded, following the line of the plinths), and for the

inscription on the latter was submitted on 21 December 1776 by

the London sculptor Richard Hayward. The candelabra were

certainly installed in the Radcliffc library by February 1777. (See

M Mccarthy, 'Sir Roger Newdigatc and Piranesi', 8%7~/i.%gfo%

M¢g¢zS.% (July 1972), 466-72). The position of the candelabra

within the Rndcliffc Camera against the piers of the great reading

room may bc seen in R. Ackermann's /+jj7o7}. a/Ore/o#d, ii, (London,

1814), 238. In F. Mackenzie's drawing (engraved in 1836 for the

Ore/o7id A/%¢#¢cle) they are shown surrounded by casts of the Apo//a

Boflvedere' the Di,ace chacsere5se' the Stooping Discobolu5' the Laocoin'

and the Wrcfz:/crf. According to all recent published accounts the

candelabra were trallsferred to the University Gallerles in 1846, but

Michaelis recorded them as still 'said to be' in the Radcliffe library

where hc did not have time to cxaminc them (14"c¢.c7¢f "¢r4/Gf j."

Gyc¢f ByG.f¢G.# (Cambridge, 1882), 5934) and they were in fact

transferred in 1894 and were probably immediately set up in the

REndolph Gallery where they were certainly to be 'secn in 1909

(S#%ow¢ry G%G.¢G,17) and where they have remained since, although

in different positions. Their position at the castcrn end of the gallery

was taken up in 1983. Tliey were moved to the entrance of the

Ruskin lecture hall in 1991

Having cstablished himself by the early 1750s as the leading

topographical printmaker in Rome, Piranesi moved into the

field of archaeological illustration with this 'r7'o/GG. dG. O#¢t7;¢#o

A%g#Jfo of 1755 and the foiir volumes of the A7¢£G.c¢G.}¢

gro%¢»G of 1756. Such work cntailed a close study of the loose

fragments of architectural ornament as well as the half-buried

bones of buildings. His interest in such fragments must have

increased during the mid-1760s when hc was invited to

employ and invent such ornaments hinself, serving his fellow

Venetian Pope Clement XIII (Rezzonico) as architect and

designer of furniture and decor. And in the sane years he

became more interested in architectural theory, publishing in

his P¢yeyc j# /'¢yc¢;£G#%yzz of 1765 a boldly polemical defence

of the hcence of Roman architectural practice, which was

based on a thorough study of the originality and fantasy of

ancient Roman ornamental sculpture. By 1767 Piranesi was

certainly busy with the design (and in supervising the

manufacture) of chimney-pieces in which fragments of ancient

relief carving and even portions of ancient architraves were

sometimes incorporated, so he must have begun to collect

antiquities by then and had probably already begun to form

'a museum specially devoted to fragments of architecture and

a collection of ornaments unique in its kmd', as it was

dcscribed by his biographer J. G. I,cgrand ('Notice historiquc

sur la vie et les ouvragcs de J. 8. Piranesi' (1801), first

reprinted in Nouvelles de l'estam±e, 5 (L969),'?n±

subsequently fully edited by G. Erouart and M. Mosser in

P¢.7'¢#;„ Gf /GJ F7:¢#f¢;f (Rome,1978), 213-52, see 241). By

1768 his activities in this field were exciting the satire of his

rival and associate the dealer and banker Thomas Jenkins.

Writing to the collector Charles Townlcy on 9 November

JenklnsdescnbedthclatestintcrcstofPirancsithe'cavofthc

candelabn'.(ForthislctterseeG.Vaughan's|>h.Dthesis'Thc

Collecting of Classical Antiquities in the Eighteenth Century:

AStudyofCharlesTownlcy(1737-1805)andhisCircle'

(Oxford,1988), 42-3.)

Jcnkins mentions a couple of candelabra which it sccms

pirancsi had hoped that Townley might buy, and also notes

that Piran€si has composed a monument for himsclf. His

ithird Candclabra'-perhaps meaning this monument-'is

compleatd, the which As hc sais, was found fc/c g#¢/c as weu

as the other two in Adrians Villa'. Jcnkins concludes by

rcporting that 'hc declares hc does not wish to sell any part

t,f' his collection' which, it is imp[ied, would not fool Townley.

pirancsi's chimney-pieces were for sale and according to this

letter he had hoped to sell a pair of candelabra to Townlcy:

t,vi.r the following decade, the last of Piranesi's life, hc sold a

gredt deal from his museum. The etchings which hc had

made diiriiig those years and which were assembled in the

[v+o vohamcs o{ his Vast, candelabri, cippi, sarcopha,ghi,

tnpodi, lttcertie, ed ornunent:i antichi .\n 1778, the ycaLr o[ his

death, wcrc dcsigned to promote business as well as to assist

learning, 'since they recorded sales and advertised work for

sale. Ncvertheless, it does seem to have been the case that

piranesi wished to keep much of his collection together and

hc cnjoined his heirs to preserve it as a museum. His son

Franccsco in fact continued to sell choice items, [o British and

other foreign collectors and to the papal museum, before

sclliiig the bulk of the collection in 1792 to King Gustavus

Ill of sweden (0. Neverov, 'Giovanni Battista Piranesi, dcr

Antikcnsanmler', Xe7?G.a, 3 (1982), 71-90; C. Gasparri, 'La

Gallcria Pirancsi da Giovan Battista a Franccsco', Xc73¢.¢, 3

(1982), 91-107.

It is not hard to explain why Piranesi bccamc so interested

in candelabra. There were no antiquities in Rome more talked

about in the latter 1760s than the exceptionally grand

Hadrianic marble candelabra with their extraordinary

undercut acanthus leaves acquired by Jenkins from the

Barberini family in 1766 and sold by him to William Ijock of

Norbury in the following year but blocked for export by

Winckelman in his capacity as Prcfcct of Antiquities. They

were then acquired by the new Pope Clement XIV and were

t]nc of the pretexts for the creation at the end of the decade

t]f' his new museum in the Vatican. In 1770 also a great

Antique candelabrum was presented to the pope by Cardinal

7-elanda (and an erudite paper published on it in the GG.o7w¢/c

P{.Jfl!#o by ('Iactano Marini). In the following years Pope

Clement secured the antique candelabra prcscrved in

''. Costanza and S. Agnesc for his museum.

The i'arliest evidcncc of Piranesi designing his own

''dndelabra is to be found in his I)z-pe7~j.c 7„¢#z.c7.c d'¢do„¢¢yc

j. foow!.#z., published in 1769 but prepared over the previous

}.Cars' in which there are high relief candelabra adoming the

llprights of one chimney-piece, free-standing candelabra to

l.lthl.r side t]f another onc., and smaller, presumably ormolu,

l'dndc'labra bttth on a chimney-piece and by themselves

'ntended as i'alide|sticks ('see p|s. 20, 29, 34, and 51). Perhaps

L'\.l'n mori' significant, and probably earlier, are the candelabra

'\.hlch Piranc''i €nvisaged flanking the high altar of s. Giovanni

"' Iatcrano in oiie of the drawings (now in the Cooper

He" l.tt Mliseiim' New york) for redecorating the chancel of

that baslllca which hc made for the Rezzonico family bctwecn

I r63 and 1765, a point first made by John Wilton Ely (777C

Y\":?aci.dAttif.6;;;;;.;;'i;%%auypi'ru;;;s;'(I::£o:,\\;#8). ''3)SOman\'ofpirancsi'sideasmaybetracedbacktoSources

in his native city that it is worth mentioning the bronze

candlestands which were such an impressive feature of

churches in Venice and the Vcncto, especially since they wcrc

far more complex in design than any such to be seen in

Rome and served, as it were, as antholoScs of fantastic

imagery-

Piranesi was so keen on the candelabrum as a type of

sculptural architecture that he designed his own monument

in this form-something which no one had ever thought of

before. It was erected for a while over his tomb in the church

of the Certosa (S. Andrea delle Fratte) but in 1779 when his

remains were moved to S. Maria del Priorato (the church of

the Knights of Malta on the Aventine which Piranesi had

rebuilt) the candelabrum was replaced by the portrait statue

by Angelini and so re-entered the family collection. It was

then sold to Cardinal Braschi from whom it was appropriated

by thc French and placed in the Louvre (Gasparri, op. cit.

106 n. 48). It may be to this memorial candelabrum that

Jcnkins rcfcrs in his letter to Townley, although it was not in

fact composed out of fragments excavated at Hadrian's Villa

but, according to Piranesi's own text on his print of it (in

Vasi, candclabri, cippi . . .), out of picccs 'dimessi' in Palazzo

Salviati at Ijongara.

The candelabra in the Ashmolcan Muscuni arc, after that

in the Louvre, the most splendid and imposing of those that

Piranesi assembled. In the first of the two prints which he

made of No. 7z hc states explicitly that it was reconstructed

from pieces discovered in the Pantanello ljakc at Hadrian's

Villa in 1769 when it was drained by Gavin Hamilton. The

earliest of the two prints made of No. 78 states that it had

the same oriSn, although the date is not given. Legrand's

biography imphes that these discoveries in the Pantanello were

the initial stimulus to the creation of Piranesi's museum.

However, as Dr Vaughan observes (in his thesis cited above,

96-8), Jenkins letter reveals that Pirancsi not only had a

considerable collection before 1769 but had also access to

excavations at the Villa before then, which is significant in

view of Hamilton's own observation that Piranesi had played

a part in identifying the best location for his immensely fruitful

excavation there (Vaughan, op. cit. 96-8). The etchings of

Hadrian's Villa, surely the greatest of all Piranesi's prints,

belong, significantly to the late 1760s, and he must have spent

much time there.

The size of Piranesi's 'muscum' in Palazzo Tomati, Strada

Felice, was commented upon by many. A letter to Townley

from the architect Vincenzo Brenna of 10 February 1769

describes the numerous ho#cg4e in the Strada Fclicc taken

over by the sculptor and the thirty people employed by him

to work the marble (Vaughan, op. cit. 98). This may be an

exaggeration, for the first of the three carvers whom Legrand

mentions as employed by Piranesi, Lorcnzo Cardelli, is unlikely

ever to have been a member of Piranesi's household factory.

Cardelli had his own workshop-'entrando nella Strada

Condotti', as it is listed on a memorandum of notable suppliers

of antiquities compiled in 1769 or 1770 in connection with

the foundation of the new Vatican museum by Clement XIV

(S. Howard, 'An Antiquarian Handlist and the Bednnings

of the Pio~Clementino', EZJ¢fcG7?£¢-Cc77f#ry Lsf#d¢.cf (autumn

1973), 40ndl). Moreover, Cordclli either had other artists

working for him or at least retailed their work, for the mosaic

on the chimney-piece which hc sold to Thomas Manscl Talbot

in 1771, and which is today at Penrice Castle, is signed by

'Aquatti' (J. Cornt'orth, 'Penrice Castle, Glant)rgan', ii,

Co#"fry £¢re (25 Scpt.1975), 757 and fig. 4). Of the two

other sculptors mcntioned by I,cgrand, 'Pronzoni' and

'Jacquietti', the first must be Franzoni, who certainly also

worked independently, although it is possible that he began

his career employed exclusively by Pirancsi, and the second

has not been identified for certain (I do not accept the

ingenious suggestion of Erouart and Mosser that it is 'sans

doutcr graphic fautive pour Franccsco Righetti').

It has never seriously been suggested that Piranesi c.\Jer

carved anything himself, but according to I,cgrand hc. made

models for the broken parts whose restoration was tricky

('delicatc'). There are a dozen or so drawings by him for

candelabra and similar compositions, but they arc very bold

compositional studies (see especially the drawing in the British

Museum for a candelabrum, no. 44 in A. Bettagno (ed.),

Disegni di Giunbattista Piranesi (Vieenz,a., L978)., and some

of the drawings recently discovered in Bologna, pis.116-24

in A. Cavicchi and S. Zamboni, 'Duc "taccuini" inediti', in

A. Bcttagno (ed.), P¢.7rfl}#Gf¢. f7i¢ Vc7¢ezz¢ c /'Ez¢rop¢ (Florence,

1983)). Presumably more detailed drawings or models must

have been made for the Ashmolean candelabra, although an

clement of inspired improvisation may well have played a part

in their construction.

In the texts on the plates which Piranesi made of the

Ashmolcan candelabra there is no indication of how cxtcnsive

the modern additions are, nor any hint that the reconstruction

of the parts was, to say the least, highly speculative. Of No.

77 Piranesi wrote in his first etching, dedicated to James

Byres, that 'si rendc prectevole per l'elegantc Varicta, c l'idca

dell'intaghi con finezza di gusto scolpiti, c sue sculture con

lcggiadria distribuzionc e grottcsco dispostc; di maniera che

non ingombrano essi l'idca generalc', which one would like

to think was written tongue-in-cheek. The junction of the

kneeling faun in No. 77 with the cup above in fact looks

hastily designed. The contraction of the candelabrum below

the cranes is painful, as is the way in which the noses of the

dolphins collide with the next stage. The continuation of the

acanthus shoot from the dolphin stage to the post behind the

cranes works better on paper than in reality. In No. 78 the

altar base of triangular plan which is so often incorporated in

antique candelabra is placed higher up than any antique

precedent or modern convention could have suggested and

seems awkward. The arrangement of fluted and rceded

elements below the crowning cup in No. 78 is also congcsted

in a manner for which there are no ancient sources. The

candelabra, even if consisting entirely of gcnuinc antique

fragments, could only have been composed by Piranesi and

there can be tittle doubt that the congestion, awkwardncss,

and painful transitions were enjoyed by him. Some of his

€ahiest imadna'ry reconstructions of the 'wild enormities of

ancient magnanimity' published in his apcrc p¢7.¢.c of 1750

already include fantastic hybrid inventions, for instaiice in the

'Parte di ampio magnifico porto' a conical storiated column

112

emerges from a tapering ro'stral column which emerges from

an obelisk dccorated with the S-fluting found on sarcophagi,

as if parts of each antique had bccn rcassembled by a witty

barbarian.

In the first etching that hc made of No. 78 which was

dedicated to 'Cav. Carlo Morris' Pirancsi expanded, not on

the beauty of the composition, but on thc meaning on the

imagery: the figures in low relief on the three sides of the

altar stage represent Hercules, Minerva, and Silvanus to whom

the candelabrum was sacred, the base was decorated with

'teschi, e simbt>li allusivi alla Rclirionc', and the sphinxes and

elephant heads placed at the angles were guardians. The base

with its sacrificial instruments and garlanded bucrania is surely

in(>dern work, although derived from a common form of

Roman frieze. The reliefs of deities are all fragments inscrted

into a framework which must also be modern. I'iranesi cannot

have bccn sure that they oridrnated in such a setting. It is hard

to understand how the very worn figure called by him Silvanus

can bc identified with any confidcnc-c, and hard to accept that

the other two reliefs came unaltered from the Pantanello.

The 'Hercules' has a feminine build, a light step, a fluttering

lion pelt, and carries his club so daintily that hc looks like ah

invention by Pcrugino, and indeed this might well be a

fragment of a Rcnalssancc rclicf. The Minerva is more

orthodox, but the way that the further side of her shield simply

disappears suggests an interest in aerial and evanescent effects

more typical of the fifteenth-century low rclicf than of

Hadrianic sculpture.

The parts of the candelabra which arc probably ancient,

even if patched up and son'etimes worked over, are, on No.

7z the kneeling faun, the stage decorated with screwed

dolphins with a scallop bctwecn them, the foliate lion's feet,

and, most interestingly, the part of the base with expressive

masks in low relief flanked by eagles. On No. 78 the three

lion's legs with their pelts and heads on their knees and the

stage decorated with squat sphinxes with vcgetal tails come

into this category. Particularly problematic arc the cranes in

No. 77 and the elephants in No. 78. A portion of the tan

and feet of each crane is integral with the central foliatc post

and docs look genuinely abraded. The heads and necks of

each crane are certainly all new and their legs have all been

restored, but the body of one bird (that below the tail of the

kncehng faun) looks like ancient work only slightly rccut. The

most vividly carved of all the birds (that below the faun's

right leg) is surely modern, although it is patched. One might

suspect the antiquity of the elephant heads bccausc they arc

such a peculiarity. Such heads had been employed, in 1756,

surely without knowledge of the antique, by modellers at the

Sevres factory, for vase candlestands (of which there are fine

examples in the Wallacc Collection) and had been employed

by Pirancsi himself in his chimney-piece for Burghley House

(above the 7.oJJo ¢7¢};co herms) and in a design for a clock

(both published in I)¢.pc7'j.c #¢¢7?¢.Gyc, pis. 1 and 61) bcforc the

alleged discovery of the antique fragments out of which his

candelabra were composed. Nevertheless, the elephants in

No. 78 look genuine and had they bccn invented by Piranesi

he would surely have made the leaf ornament between them

more interesting.

H.lying retnl'ved Wllat is likely to be ancient, wc can identify

\\,hat is certainly modern. The identical cups crowning each

L-diidi.labrum with their Curling acanrhus lcavcs and crisp

\\,dtcr]cavcs between them are neither worn nor reworked

and i'annot ha\'c spent Centuries in the Pantanello. This is also

true of the altar 'section of No. 78 with its ram's heads and

.io\'rn_curling leaves above (but excepting the inscrted rclicfs).

I, [s also true of the cntirc base of No. 78 above the lion's

iL'gs .'nd below the sphinxes (all of one piece of marble with

.I c|iagonal grey streak) and true of the plinth of No. 77 below

the cagli's. Rc\'iewing these modern portions we note that

thc}I ha\Jc a consistency of handling which dcrivcs from a very

ostLiitatious usc' of the drill-a small drill is used to create

roirits tjf shadtrv in Palmettes and honeysuckle and the

scrrated edgcs of acanthus, a larger one is used in the ram's

heids .'nd leaves and berries above the altar section in No.

7.8 t(t such an extent that when looked at closely the forms

dissol\.e, as \''hcn photographic reproductions reveal

[hcmscl\'cs as mechanical dots. This use of the drill is a feature

of many of Piranesi's restored antiquities and is also found in

his i-hilnney-pieces, for instance those at Burghley and

Gt>rhambury, And it can be seen in some of the ornamental

i'drving in the Museo Pio-Clementinor-for instance, the

fr.imes of the reliefs set into the wall of the Sala degli Animali

iiid the decora[ivc bordcrs of the pe#¢c ¢„f¢.co tables with

Winged ram supporters now in the same room (oridnally in

tht' Sala dei Busti). It is a type of carving inspired by what has

often been regarded as a decadent tendency in ancient Roman

'i'iilpturc. Sui'h drilling is never found on ancient Greek

omunental work. Pirancsi, as a defender of the originality of

[hi' alii-lent Rtimans, must have known this and perhaps

iiii-ouragi.d this manner of handling for this reason.

It rein.tins to identify the sculptors who made the modern

rJortioiis of the candelabra. As we have already pointed out,

I+'grand, whose biography was written with information

provided by Piranesi's family, mentioned Cardelli. This

'i-ulptor \vas the restorer of the candelabrum now in the

\'dtional Gallery, Stockholm, which came from Piranesi's

miiseiim. We know this from the catalogue made in 1792

b}. Giuscppe Angclini when it was bought by Gustavus 11

(P. Kjcllbcrg, 'Piranesis antiksamlung i Nationalmuscum',

•V¢fG.tJ%¢/%#feG. ¢7.fGofa, 2 (1920), 156nd9). That Cardclhi was

Partlcularlvassociatedwiththcrestorationofcandelabramlght

alk> be i'oncluded from the fact that he is documented as

uorklngonthccandc|abraremovedfromS.Agncscandtaken

kt the Vatic-an in 1772 (see the note by C. Pletrangcli

JPpl'nded to W. Amelung and G. Lippold, D¢.G I?¢#/Pf%yG#

d" V¢f"¢%"c4c# irfufe#%f, Ill, ii (Berlin,1956), 544). The

''" l'dlsh candelabrum has many passages of drillwork smllar

"' tho'l.1n the Ashmolcan candelabra. One wonders whether

"''a'thlsaspi'ctot'hisworkwhichFatherThorpchadin

""rduhcnon6r'ebruay|774hcwrotetohispatronLord

\nlndl'l from Rome about chimney-pieces that could bc

h°11chtthi'rc'i'itingCardc||iinpaticularassomeoneWho

""°rnanlentsinmarb|ea'sfineastheancientsdld'(quoted

h\WRli'dcrni.|'irancsiatGorhamburv',8%#/G.7?gr}0%

•'/aL7¢:9„ (Scpt 1975), 590-1).

'hL''l'l'OnciL'ciilptormeiitionedb}J|jegrandwasFranzonl

His special talent was for the carving of animals and he is

documented as the restorer of most of the smau sculpture

ass'sembled in the Sala degti Animali created by the papal

architect Michclangclo Simonetti in the Musco Pio-

Clementino, between the mid-1770s and the mid-1780s.

Outstanding among these are the birds, similar in size and

often in type to the cranes in No. 7z and indeed includiiig

a crane with spread wings (W. Amelung, DG.G S'4%/P£%„# def

V¢fG.c¢#de¢c# iM%fc#xp (Berlin, 1908),11, ii, no. 122, pl.

32, as 'Rcihcr?') which was noted by E. Q. Visconti as coming

from Pirancsi's collei'tion (I/ A4%feo J'¢.a-C/c%c7¢£G.coo, vii

(Rome,1807), 50-I, commentary on pl. XXVIIl). Visconti

considered that the carving of the plumage is hard to match

in ancient or modern sculpture, but in fact it \vas matched by

Franzoni. If, as seems likely, the Vatican crane had already

been restored by Franzoni when it was acquired from

Pirancsi's collection (which was certainly also the case,

incidentally, with the 'Capra con gru e serpe' which was also

bought for the museum from Piranesi's collection-see

Gasparri, op. cit. 94) then it might have been bec'ause of'hi's

work for Pirancsi on Hadrianic animal fragments that

Franzoni came to be employed for tliis same purpose by the

pope. Franzoni was (I am informed by Professor Pictrangeli)

responsible for the magnificent winged ram supports of the

ye7'de ¢#£G.co tables mentioned above which suggests that, like

Cardelli, hc too employed this style of decorative drillwork.

Finally a note is required concerning Sir Roger Newdigate,

the noted connoisseur and collector, also a talcnted amateur

artist, who prescnted these remarkable objects to the

University for which hc was Member of Pa.rliament between

1751 and 1780. He bought the Candelabra from Piranesi

during his second Grand Tour which hc made between July

1774 and December 1775, after the death of his first wife.

Before buying them hc had associated with Piranesi as a fellow

antiquarian, showing him drawings of the Roman arch at

Aosta which Piranesi promptly etched, and borrowing from

him a plan of the Baths of caracalla (Mccarthy, op. cit.) It

has generally been supposed that Newdigte bought the

candelabra with Oxford in mind: possibly, however, he

realized on returning home to his country scat of Arburv

Hall in Warwickshire that he would find it hard to

accommodate [hcm and then thought of the Un].vcrsity.

Certainly Piranesi seems not to have realized that they were

destined for the University and he did not mention this in

the text on the second etching that he made of candclabnim

No. 77 where hc mentions that 'Sig. Cavaliere Rugicro

Ncwdigatc, gcntiluomo di gusto' has traiispotted it to his

'Patria'. 'Extant in Bibliotheca Radcliviana' was, however,

later added in small letters. Newdigate had earlier played a

part in negotiating the donation of the Arundcl marbles to

the University: indeed it was his letter which conveyed to the

Mccting of Convocation on 20 Lcbruar}71755 the offer of

the dowager counte'ss of Pomfret to present her 'Incstimablc

collection of statues, Busts and other AIitiquitics' (R. F.

P:C^:FT}''Tq:4SpmoleanMuseum,168'3-1694(o;Ford.

]986),144). Fifty years after the gift, Newdigate, shocked at

the inadequate accommodation of the marbles in the I+ogic

School, offered to pay for their cleaning, restoration, and

113

ITALIAN SCULPTURES: NAMFjD ARTIST

transfer to the Radcliffe library where his candelabra already

stood-he envisaged the statues placed against the piers and

betwccn the arches of the reading room while reliefs and

inscriptions would be in the open space bclt>w which would

bc glazed and secured by iron bars (as it is today). His offcr

was accepted (after some attempts to deflect it) by the

Radcliffe Trustees and then, on 24 March 1806, by

Convocation, but the Radcliffe hibrarian Professor Homsby

refused to allow the marbles in and the decree of acceptance

was rescinded in the following year (ibid. I 84-5).

@@79

supplied by Franccsco RIGHETTI (1738-18|9)

79. Callipygian Venus

34.6 cms. (height)

Broiize with a dark brown Patina, ruddy where worn, with a slight

ggcchnastJ:geen[:a:s(:Te€p:::::iy=:g°a:t'a:°hset;WwTt'hc:S:[e:'rh[:nfiegautre:;d=ght

th]gh (possibly a replacement for a leg damaged in the casting, such

rdditions being unusual in Righetti's bronzes). The circular

unmoulded base is integral. 'F RIGHF,lTI . F . ROMAE. 1788' is

chisclled behind the figure's left foot.

purL'hased on 15 November 1960 for £65 from Alfred Spero, 'Art

Lxpcrt', 4 Park Manslons Arcade, Knightsbndgc, London SWI

Regis[cred on 4 November.

Righet[i, who studied under the Roman siivcrsmith and

bro|izc founder Ijuigl Valadier, established himself as one of

the leading suppliers of bronze sculpture in the city in the last

t" dccadcs of the eighteenth century. The four-page printed

i-dtaloguc of his products dated 1794, and in French, survives

in the Tathain papers in the Victoria and Albert Museum

(reproduced F. Haskcll and N. Penny, T¢f£G ¢7¢d £¢c A7¢f¢.g#c

(London and New Haven, Conn.,1981), 343). Like his rival

Zt]ffoli (see Nos. I 1015) hc spccialized in bronze

reproductions of the most famous antique sculptures,

'fid€l€mcnt [fG.c] copies . . . reduits a une juste proportion',

but unlike Zoffoli it seems he also produced full-size casts.

Hc also supplied ornaments for clocks, vases, and obelisks in

brt>nzc 'dores a differentcs coleurs [j¢.c], imitant pa'rfait€mcnt

[r£.c] les bcllcs dorurcs dc France.' That his business was still

ai'tive in 1810 is proven by his bronze reduction of Canova's

nude standing portrait of Napoleon in the I~ouvre (LP. 2715)

which is chiselled 'Francesco Righetti et fils 1810'. Models

f'or his cttpics after the antique were supplied by Roman

sculptors such as Pacetti (it is notable that the copies of

statues not in Rome such as the A4ed¢.cz. Vc!~#f dated 178z

with Agnews, Bond Street, winter of 1985, are less accurate).

Wc know from C. H. Tatham that Richetti was not himself

personally involved in either modelling or casting but was an

c'ntrcprcneur (see No.15). Given the large bronzes that he

sold, however, it is unlikely that he did not have a foundry,

although it is not impossible that hc put work out. In the list

ttf 1794 tlle statuette of tile 'Venus Callipige de la Farnesine'

Was priced at 18 zecchini (nearly £9). Full size it could be

Supplied for 550 zecchini (£225). For the history and

reputation of the C¢//G.4rj7G.¢7¢ Vc#ac see Haskeu and Penny

(op. cit. 316-18).

K. T. Parker, then Keeper of the Department, whose

dl'Cision to acquire this bronze must have been stimulated by

!u' Purchase of the version of the sane antique prototype

attributed by him to Hans Mont (No. 351), described it in

the A%ce#¢/ Rcpo# for |96| as follows: 'Closely based on the

marble ln its present condition, and obviously cxecuted a.fter

the restoration bv A|bacini in the Eighteenth ccntury. It

'S b\' Francesco Righetti . . dated 1788, thus clearly Provlng

thl. mlnor but not unintcr€sting point that Albaclni'S

rl'Storation niust have been fully carried out prior to that

year.' But the bronze does not in fact correspond to the

marble statue in its present condition in thc Museum in

Na.pies (to which it was taken not long bcforc 1792-scc

Haskeu and Penny, op. cit. 316-18). Superficially it may

seem to reproduce Albacini's restorations, as Parkcr proposed,

but only because Albacini's restorations were not very

diffcrent from those they replaced. Two changes that Albacini

did make may be mentioned: hc altered the figurc's hair

dressing so that the locks tumbled down the neck to mcct

the top of the smock at the figure's left shoulder and he

altered the end of the drapery which cxtcnds from thc raised

hand making it longer and more vertical. The Ashmolean

Museum's bronze follows neither of thesc. alterations, but

follows the restorations which preceded them and which can

be seen in the early engravings of the sculpture. In some small

details the bronze departs from the prototypc entirely: for

instance it omits the central knot in the rirdlc below the

breasts which is found in the sta[uc today and is included in

prints of the statue before Albacini restored it. This detail is

included in the small bronze by Z,offoli (lot 92, Sotheby's,

New York, 20 May 1988), which also has a bracelet on the

figure's right wrist and a smaller base.


@@80

@@81

Supplied by Franccsco RIGHETTI (1738-1819)

80 and 81. Busts of Bacchus and

Ariache

29 cms. (height including socles)

Bronze with a dark green and brown patina. Hollow' lost-wax, casts.

Ijittle evidcncc of any tooling. Both busts are attached by integral

metal fixtures to turned soclcs of /ojfo ¢»f;co. The bust of B¢cc¢#f

(No. 80) has a slightly chippi'd socle and a dent on his chin. .F

RIGHETTI. F. ROME.1789' is chisclled in the metal across the narrow

edge of back below the neck, in both cases, with triangular shaped

'stops, in the case of B¢cc¢#f with a long tall to the last numeral.

'8. / 404. / a.' and '8. / 405. / e=.' are painted in white in the

ht>llow interiors.

Given by C. I). F,. Fortnum in 1889. 8. 404 and 8. 405 in his

catalogues. Bought in Rome in 1848 for £5 according to the

notebook catalogiie, but in 1849 according to the earlier preliminary

catalogue (p. 40). The bronzes have served as ornaments for coin

cabinets in the Heberden Coin Room since 1959.

Fortnum was aware that these were reproductions of antique

sculptures and in his large manuscript catalogue he suggested

that both were after prototypes in the Capitolinc Museum in

Rome. The Ar;¢d„c (81) is indeed a reduced copy of a

sculpture in that museum, a work much favoured by

Winckelmann who published it in his A4o7¢%77¢c72£z. G.7¢c¢z.f¢. of

1767 (no. 55), and which is now considered to bc an

effeminate D;o79yy»f (see H. Stuart Jones, 777e Sc#/Pf#7rcf a/

£¢c A4.&fco C¢P;fo/¢.#o (Oxford, 1912), 344-5). It is an exact

copy save that the edge of the bust comes closer to the curls

and the lcavcs in the hair are worn in the antique marble. This

bust was much reproduced in marble, sometines with a copy

of the Cape.fo/¢.7GG A„f¢.7Go%f as a companion (see for instance

the pair sold at Sotheby's, I,ondon, 7 July 1988, lots 285

and 286).

The B¢cc¢a¢f was dc''cribed when exhibited in Fortnum's

lifetime as 'apparcntly a reduced model of the l}raschi

Antinous', but this is incorrect. It is in fact based on a marble

in the Townlcy Collection in the British Mu'seum (no. 1899,

as an A72}¢.»oz#-D¢.o#yr#f). Townlcy acqiiired tllis from the

Villa Pamphili and casts, iipon which RIghctti's model would

no doubt have been based, were made bcforc it was cxported

(C. W. Clairmont, D¢.c B¢./¢»z.JJc deJ A"fz.7¢o%J (R{)me,1966),

51, no. 3z pl. 27). There is a diffcrcncc in the inclination of

the head and in the pattern of lcavcs and grapes.

For RIghctti 'see No. 79. These two bronzes are likely to

correspond with the busts of A7';¢d#c and B¢cc4)#r in

RIghetti's 1794 catalogue-a bust of 'I,isimaque' comes

between them so they were liot perhaps always sold as a

pair-if so then they cost 12 zecchini each at that date. That

was approximately £5-the sum for which Fortnum bought

these examples half a century later. Small pairs of these two

busts are also found-in bronze with ormolu socles (with

Vinci Antiques,124 New Bond Street, London, in 1986) and

in ivory on ebonized socles (Christie's, I,ondon. 28 January

1988, lot 65). The bust of A77.¢d7¢c is also found oddly

incorporated in the tripod support for a P¢.cfr¢ d#7i¢g"c'r;do„

table probably of the Second Empire (lot 38z Sotheby's,

London, 17 March 1989, while that of B¢cc¢"J serves as the

Slt bronze support for a fee2" signed 'Bcaujault 1871' (lot

176, Sothcby's, I,ondon, 28 Scptcmbcr 1989). Clearly

RIghctti's models entered the stock of the Parisian bronzists.

Inferior sand-cast copies of the pair on miniature marble

pedestals each stamped 'GS [MjEDAILLE D'OR 1867' were lot

53, Christic's, 23 March 1989.

@@82

I'crhaps by Niccol6 (Nicolino) ROCCATAGljlATA (active

1593-1636)

82. Infant angel, or amorino

weeping

27.7 cms. (height including bronze base); 0.5 cms. (maximum

height of base); 10.5 cms. (height of marblc' pedcstal)

Bronze covered with a dark t)rown to black varnish, red where

thinnest, worn to expose a dull greyish green-brown natural patina

chiefly on the belly and thighs. Flaw on top of boy's left thigh. Dent

also in thigh. Little evidcncc of tooling-the detail of the feathers,

for instance, is all in the wax model. Tlie small round bronze base

is integral. The bronze is mounted (loosely) on a dark green breccia

marble pedcstal lettered in golcl with the nam of the donor'and her

brother.

Given by Miss Elinor Rokeby Price in May 1948 (rcgistered 21 May

1948), in memory of her brt>thci-Brigadier General Bartholomcw

G. Price, CB, CMG, DSO. Said to bc from the collection of Jacob

Goldschmidt.

Another version of this bronze is in the Staatlichc Musecn,

Berlin-Dalilem (no.1814, see W. Bode, 777c J£¢/G.¢7¢ Byo7¢zc

S£¢£%G#GJ of£¢G RG%¢G.j:J¢%cc (I,ondon, 1912), iii, pl. Ccl,XV,

a:nd EL acre sohdo: Bronzen yon der Antike bit z,t4r Gegenwart

(Berlin,1983), no. 74 (entry by Ursula Schlegel)). It differs

a little in the mouth (the t=ccth may be dctccted only in that

version), the drapery, the pattern of curls, and the degree to

which the boy's toes overlap the base which in that case is

also supported by a sub-base of egg and dart moulding (which

is, however, separately cast). The size of the figures and the

character of the bases suggests that they originally served as

andiron ornaments. Such a weeping putto might have had a

laughing putto as a companion-the merry child, 33.5 cms.

high, from the Soulages Collection in the reserve collection

of the Victoria and Albert Museum (8432-1863) perhaps

reflects such a figure. A weeping putto ofvcry similar charactcr

but smaller (19 cms. in heicht) and with thicker legs, and the

hands in a different position (the back of his left hand flat

against his left eye) which is in the collection of Sir Brins[ey

Ford (and was in the collection of Sir Thomas Lawrence) has

as its pair a cheerful putto turning with his arms raised to his

right. Fine examples of andirons with winged putti of Lsimilar

character on top of them (but considerably larger in size) are

in the Nelson Atkins Museum, Kansas City (62-19/I and 2).

Putti of this type, with elongated, undulating contours and

loosely articulated forms-plump thighs, full bcllics, the

upper chest distinguished from the torso below by a high belt

of drapery-and with ovoid heads crowned with thick top

curls, the open lips rendered as smooth projections, unjoined,

not dissimilar to the chin, and the eyes, also summary in

trcatmcnt, given segmental brows, have been particularly

associated with Roccatagliata. They are in fact characteristic

of Venetian sculpture generally in the second half of the

sixteenth and in the carly seventeenth century, and will bc

found in works docunented as by other sculptors (the

A7?7e#7"a.¢f;o7£, commissioned from Alessandro Vittoria by

Hans Fugger in 1580, today in the Art In'stitute of Chicag(+

ig|2.249-is a Striking example) and in numerous bronzcs

\\,hich arc of inferior quality (see Nos.124,125,175,176).

But it is t:rue that Roccatagliata seems to have been particularly

ft,lid of the type. ExampICs arc the Christ Child held by the

st.inding Virgin inscribed With the n.ame 'NICoLLIN', in the

Mus€c National de la Renaissance, Ecouen (CL.13272); the

hrgc putti half-kneeling on the lower scrolls of the candelabra

t,t's. Giorgio Maggiorc, Venice (documented as made by him

i,1 collaboration with Cesare Groppo in the 1590s); the

i\,entidue puttini di bronzo che si convertono in scartozzi con

campanello attaccato a una mano e candelabro sopra la testa'

L'ommissioned for the Same Church, which may be identified

as the light-fittings in the form of angel terms surviving beside

all thi' side altars, one of which retains its bell attachments, in

[hdt i'hurch; and, abttvc all, the altar front crowded with child

uigi'|s and cherubim which since 1779 has served as the

rctabl.' of the sacristry of s. Moise, Venice-a work signed

|n/ him in 1633 and made with his son Sebastiano. It is

i:itcu'orthy also that Roccatagliata's adults arc also influenced

|i\r this infantile idea: this is true of the faces of his finest

sJrviving works-the statues of Sff Geo#gG and Sf¢4c7¢

i'ommissioned carly in 1593 for the 'Scabelli deuc prime

sedie' of the new choir stalls and today on the altar rails of

S. Giorgio Magdorc, Venice.

It is also characteristic of Roccatagliata's work that the

detail is not tooled but reproduced from the wax model. This

is true, for exainple, of the scribbled pattern in the fringe of

the Virgin's veil at Ecouen, and of the decorations of st

Sti'pheii's i'hasuble. It is true too of the wings in this weeping

[iutto. An idiosyncratic featurc of the putto is the treatment

t]f the second toes which are flattened, square ended, and

\\.ith the nail very deeply set. This will also bc found in the

feet of the Virdn at I,couen, in the visible foot of the Sf

Gcor.7c and in those of the exquisite terracotta A4l¢do##¢ ¢7?d

(,'4G./d w¢.*¢ A»gc/f in Berlin (Staatliche Museen, Berlin-

Dalilem, no. 2616).

In all the literature on Roccatagliata it is assumed that he

\\as ri'sponsiblc f(tr the casting of his bronzes, but most of

hls recorded commissions were collaborative and he may have

t>nly prt]vided the models-it is odd, if hc was an experienced

brt>iizi. f't)under, that the S. Moise relief should have bccn cast

tl\' Jean Chenet and Martin Feron. His excellence as a

nlodellcr is sugge'sted by the tradition that he was employed

in this i'apacity by Tintoretto (recorded by R. Soprani in his

Vj:e de' Pittori, §cultori, ed archi,tetti genoT]esi, ed. C. G. R2:rfl

(Genoa.1768-9), i. 353-5).

\'tJlker Krahn informs me that thc. version of this bronze

HI Berlill was rcproduced by Berlin foundries in the first

ili'i'''de of this century.


@@83

Raffacllo ROMANF,I,I,I (1856~ 1928)

83. Bessie Rosalie France

70.5 cms. (height of bust, from lowest portion of shawl to top

of head); 63.2 cms. (height of bust, from back of bust where

supported); 59.4 cms. (width of bust); 125.9 cms. (height of

pedestal)

Carrara marble. The plinth is of three separate units: plinth; shaft

wit.h base; capital, abacus, and block. There is gold in the recesses

of the relief of a vase, ivy leaves, and berries on the block, in the

hollows of the capital, in the channels on the shaft, and in the

lettering: 'Boss & Mac' is chiselled in untidy cursive lettering on the

front and back faces of the base of.the shaft. .BF.SSIE / RoSAljlF. /

FRANCF,' is chiselled in the tablet in the capital on its front side.

'Prof R. Romanclli of Florence' is chiselled lightly in cursive letters

obliqucly to proper right in the fringe of the shawl. The bust was

cleaned by Rachcl Kenward in August 1988, and the pedcstal

cleaned by Mark Norman in April 1989.

The provenance is unrecorded but is presumably connected with

the France bequest. Remembered by Mr Taylor as being in the

Museum when he commenced work here in 1948. Kept in the

Museum's basement until March 1989 when placed in the Combe

Room.

Raffaeuo Romanclli was the son of Pasquale Romanelli (1812-

87) a pupil and chief assistant of Lorenzo Bartolini. Pasquale,

like Bartolini, was noted for his attempts to produce marble,

three-dimensional versions of famous paintings. His versions

o[ RaLpha€rs Medouna del Cardellino and o[ Allori.s Sleeping

C47?.ff were famous. A good idea of his reputation with British

and American visitors to Florence may be obtained from Mrs

Trollope's 'Notes on the Most Recent Productions of the

Florentine Sculptors', Part IV, A7¢ /o%7'?¢¢/ (I Scpt. 1865),

2634, which describes a visit to his studio (formerly

Bartolini's) near Porta S. Frediano. He produced candelabra

and an elaborate chimney-piece for I,ord Portarlington which

were especially admired. Raffaello was no less successful.

Among his most notable works in Florence arc the splendid

bronze statue of Ubaldino Peruzzi in Piazza lndependenza,

the bust of Ccllini on the Ponte Vecchi(t, some of the

sculptures on the fa¢ade of the Duomo, and the tomb of

Donatello ill S. Ijorenzo. Also by him are the tomb of Pope

Alexander 11 in St Peter's, Rome, and the statues of Garibaldi

in Sicna and of Charles Albert of Savoy on the Quirinal in

Rome. But like his father hc depended for much of his business

on foreign visitors to Florence. His son, Romano, was also

a successful sculptor.

The variety of texture in this bust is characteristic of

Raffaello Romanelli's work in marble. The rose petals and

leaves in Mrs France's bosom arc represented in thin and

transparent marble, but impression is as much the sculptor's

concern as imitation and it is not clear where the rose ends.

The shawl appears to have first been carefully rendered in a

low relief imitation of a textile pattern and then covered with

rough blows of a chisel to give a vibrant effect. The hair is

rendered by tremulously undulating chiselled channc[s. No

less remarkable is the evanescent half-smile and the half-distant

expression in the eyes. A still more exceptional example of Romanclli's virtuosity in carving and imaginative

portraiture is his ideal bust portrait Jr£.f F¢.orc7¢f¢.7?a in the

Musco Nazionalc d'Arte Moderna, Rome. This is also

terminated in an unorthodox manner: the shawl overhangs

the pedestal over which flowers and ribbons also drip.

The bizarre character of the pedcstal of the bust of Mrs

France is unlike anything found in British or French sculpture

in the late nineteenth century but is typical of Itahan work in

this period, reflecting the innovations of Giuseppe Grandi, in

particular in his marble portrait of Avvocato Billia

commissioned in 1873 for the Municipal Cemetery in Milan

(replaced by a bronze, the marble is now in the Gallcria d'Artc

Moderna, Milan, no. I I l8-pl.1114 in L. Caramel and

C. Pirovano's catalogue apcye dc//'o#occ7¢£o (Milan 1975)).

Grandi also did much to popularize the revival of carly

medieval, Ijombardic, geometric decoration such as is

employed here. It was very popular in Italian sculpture around

1880 often in combination with modern, art-nouveau,

ornament-an extreme example of its use is the bronze statue

A;„¢fc;£# by Ettore Ximenes of I 897 in the Musco Nazionale

d'Arte Moderna, Rome.

Bessie Rosalie France was the wife of George Flood France,

for whom see No. 84. It may bc assumed that 'Boss' and

'Mac', the dachshunds represented 'adorsed' in relief on either

side of the plinth of the pedestal, were her pets.

ng:.,':,.:'*iin'':%.,fro,,.I.,,,.,,.,,I...,..,,,,,..:,..'','.;:¥¥:FEE

tiHffiL'i'':,,,!'i,,;',',,,,:,:,;:,,,:,,,;,,',';,,'i,,,;I,:,'i,',;,;;;'H','''.,1ff,'l


@@84

Foundry of G. Vignali

After Raffaello ROMANELLI (1856-1928)

84. George Flood France

63.8 cms. (height including iiitegral bronze base); L3 cms.

(height of integral bronze base); 4.2 cms. (height of marble

plinth); 19.6 cms. (length of marble plinth); 16.4 cms. (width of

marble plinth)

Bronze of uniform dark brown patina. Hollow cast. Stamped into

the inodel on back side of the integral bronze base 'I-ot''DERIF,. G

VIGNALI. E Co' with 'I>ARJS' continuing on the proper right side of

the same base, the capitals irregular. Incised in the model across t.lie

proper left corner of the upper surface of the base 'Prc [: Prof. ? I

Romanelli R'±./Florence. 1903.' in cursive letters. Chisclled in the

metal on the front side of the base t)clow the sciilptor's name

'George F. Francc', 1 simulated signaturc with a tail to the 'e' and

flourishes to the 'Gs' and .Fs'. Mounted on ruddy brown Tuscan

marble (ee¢rowo 7iojr¢ffro).

Provenance unrecorded, but presumably connected with the France

bcqucst. Remembered by Mr Taylor as being in the Museum when

he commenced work here in 1948.

G. F. France (MA Excter College) who died on 14 February

1933 bequeathed seven-tenths (]f his estate to the University

of Oxford subject to the payment of a life annuity of ce,000.

Three-tenths of his bequest was to bc devoted to the

Ashmolean Museum. This bcqucst was accepted by dccrce of

7 November 1933. The recipient of the annuity died on 19

January 1947 and this bronze statuette together with the

marble portrait bust of Mrs France (No. 83) may be supposed

to have come to the Museum in that ycarl)nc in which the

proper recording of accessions was, understandably,

disrupted. Statuettes of this size and medium and informal

character were not unknown in F.ngland-.J. F,. Bochm had

indeed created something of a vogue for portraits of this sort,

his 7l¢¢cfaer¢y with pincc-nez and both hands in pockets and

his A4¢.//¢¢.f with one hand in pocket and the other with a

cigarette (both plasters of which arc in the National Portrait

Gallery) belong to the carly 1860s-but by the cnd of the

ccntury this had cea'sed to bc a popular type of p(>rtraiture in

Britain. In Italy on the other hand such statuettes were much

in demand. A number of examples from this period are

prcscrved in the Musco d'Artc Modcrna in the Palazzo Pitti

in Florence, among them two striking examples by Raffaello

Romanelli, one of the Awocato Alfredo Ambrosiano of 1892

which represents him cross-legged holding a bowler hat and

a cigar (Giorn. 741), and another of an unknown man with

his hands in his pockets (CG. 647; Dep. Com. 240). The

later was cast by the Vignali foundry, whosc name appears on

many Florentine bronzes of this period-the bronze statuette

of George France is the only onc I have seen in which the

foundry is located in Pans rather than Florence and it must

be concluded that it moved thcrc, perhaps only briefly. Once

cast, the bronze was perhaps sent back to Florence because

the marble of the phnth is of a local type much favoured in

Tuscany. Romanelli exhibited statuettes in the Royal

Academy Summer F,xhibition in 1909, one of which, of an English sitter, Mr Bushncll (no. 1681), was specified as of

bronze. An Englishman, A. Bartlett, also wrote a book about

RIo"Inclhii-Raf f oello Romanelli and his worh§ (Biorne>

1915), which is unobtainable, however, in England and not

easy to locate in Italy. For Romanclli see also No. 83. As

mentioned there one of his most notable public statues was

that of Ubaldino Peruzzi in Piazza lndependenza in Florence

dated 1897-the high reliefs {)f its pedestal include many

figures very similar in size and chara.cter to this statuette.

Little is known of France. He was the first son of the Rcvd

George France and was born at Brockdish, Norfolk, in 1847.

Hc was educated at Eton and matriculated at Exeter College,

Oxford (also his fathcr's college), in May 1864, taking his

BA in 1867 and his MA in 1871. Hc was called to the Bar

on 26 January of the latter year and by 1902 hc had ceased

practising. He was a JP for Middiescx and also FSA.

(Information from Mr Maddicott of Exeter College and Mr

Brecm of the Inner Temple Ijibrary).


@@85

Ulikllowll foundr}J

iftcr)ai'opo SALh'Sovli\TO (Jacopo Tatti) (14861570)

85. Virgin and Child

+8.5 i'nis. (height, includlng base); 13.7 cms. (lengtli ot'bronzc

plinth); 9.8 cms. (wicith of bronze plinth)

Brt)ii/c with .I dark broWn, ill parts slightly grccn, patina. Hollow,

it,st_\\7ax, i-ast' \''ith \'aried, biit mostly thick, walls, with some

[,erforatioils in the folds behind the Virgin's right arm There is

[iiiich c\idcni-e of work witll files and chisels. Thcrc is a firing crack

.'t the b.ick of [hc veil. An irregular large plug is visible in the draper}r

oii [hc shoulder to proper right. Circular plllgs are visible ill

L„idrdp€d corllers of'the plillrh proper front right and back left.

'|'hcre is A small knob on the head of Christ with a screw hole

I,i.|'ind it and a plugged holc behind that; al'so a small hole in thc

t(,ii of' the Virgiil's head and nearby much evidence of filing, ovcr

'' ii.'tch perhaps of a different metal. The integral bronze base is

'L.LL'\\.i'd to A sprc'ading ho[lowed cbonized plinth a]id a sub-plinth,

'i|'o ttt' \'.ottd t'ild painted [o simulate pe7'dc ¢7zf¢.co marble.

|}c'iiiieathed by Mrs Levcrton Harris, 1939.

A \Jcrsion of this statuette, with Sansovino's name (TACoBUS

s,\NsoV.) chisclled across the front of the plinth, was

published in 1922 (E. dc Liphart, 'Deux maquettes en bronze

dc la Renaissance italicimc', G¢zc#g dcf 4c¢"ix:-¢7?I, 64/2

(1922), 33947) when it was, or at least had recently been,

in thi' possession of a private collector in I,cningrad. This

ft]und its wav in the 1930s into the collection of Baron

Heinrich Thysscn-Borncmissza and then, through Adolph

I,t>cwi in 1951, to the Cleveland Museum of Art (51.316). A

i'crtificatc signed by Planiscig in January 1935 as'serted that

the lcttcring corresponds 'fully' to that on the plinths of the

bronzc statuettes of sansovino's Evangelists in St Mark's in

\rcnice. The similarity is hardly surprising and proves little,

dild in any case is not exact, since the Christian nrmc

i'(tmmcnccs h€rc with a 'J' rather than an '1' (not apparent at

first since thi' tall is not firmly attached to the body of the

li'tter)' which is thc case with no other version ofthc sculptor's

n.'nlc chisclled on either bronze or marble. Furthermore, it

1' i'unous, if the lettering is contemporary with the casting,

tlut thcrc is a disfiguring patch in the plinth between the first

dlld sci'ond names. One would suppose that this was originally

•' 11i'dt enough repair for the letters to continue over it.

Hou'i.vcr, the lettering certainly looks old and must at least

rcfll'ct '' tradition concerning the origin of the model. Thl'

l'lt>ngatl'd proportions and continuous curve from the Virgin's

rlght f't>ot to the fold of drapery above her head recau the

'wl'e|1 (>f' Jacopo Sansovino's S£ /¢acc:f in the Duomo in

r'lt»tllcl'' while the conception of the Madonna as a mantelled

ROImn niatron recalls both the seated Vz.rg¢.# ¢"ed C¢G./d he

nudl' f'or S. Agostino in Rome and the works of his master

•\ndrea 'Sansovino.

i\'1orl' di'cisivcl}J, as Lipha|t observed when first publishing

thl' brtn" (ibid.). the bronze is only a little varied f'rom the

nlllrbll. 1''!.i:7?.% ¢7?d C¢G./¢ above the tomb of Gelasio Nichesola

''' tlle Duomo of vcrom' which it is now known that

''"1SO\'lno e\i.i'uted betwccn 1 530 and 1532. Since it is Smaller

in size (the marble version is 80 cms. high) the bronze was

supposed by I,iphart t(> be based on a maqucttc; this may bc

correct but the more upright posc which is the chief diffcrcnce

might also bc explained as a moclification to eiiable i[ to make

more scnsc as an indepcndcnt group (on the tomb [hc figures

are designed to comfort the bishop wh(j reclines in effigy

below them)-a point made by Brucc Boucher in his

forthcoming mont)graph on Sansovino's sculpture. Like

Liphart, Bouchcr discerns a debt to Donatello, and, iioting

that in the Cleveland statuette the irises of the Virgin's cycs

hive been pcrforated, he wonders whcthcr the face wds

originally silvcred, as with Donatcllo's V¢.7#. i.7¢ ¢7¢d G'47¢./d in

the Santo in Padua. The finish of thi' Cleveland bronze

rcscmblcs th(.)sc known to have becii cast after his models in

Venice, and in particular the Evangelists of st Mark's which

are ot'comparablc si7jc, aiid, where the darkcned varnish has

\vom off, the lnctal is of the same choc(]late colour, typical

t)f a very coppcry allt]y, as is seen in the F,vangclists. On the

wholc it sccms likcly that the bronze in Cleveland was made

by, or for, Sansovino himself, and if so it may well be his first

experiment with this medium (as Bouchcr also observcs')

made soon after his first contact with the thriving foundries

and advanced casting technology of the Vencto.

When Hans Weihrauch published his Sf»d¢.c7¢ 2;#7#

bilderni§chen Werhe dos ]acopo San§ovino (Strastoulg, \935) ,

34 he was able to point out the existence of other bronze

versions, unsigned, in the Goldschmidt Collection in Berlin

and in t:hc Gualino Collection (Gallcria Sabauda, Turin).

Another is in the Museo Poldi-Pezzoli, Milan (Piccolo Musco

Mario c Fosca Crespi FC. 15/68), t]ne is in the private

collection of Professor Keutner in Florence, and one was sold

at Sothcby's, Ijondon, 2 July 1973, lot 70, perhaps identical

to one sold thcrc 13 Dccembcr 1990, lot 128. Thcsc versions,

t(]gcther with the. Ashmolcan's have been classed as replicas

of a later period by W. D. Wixom (Rc7¢¢¢.ff¢7?cc 87o%zcf/7~oow

odi.a Co//ecf¢.o7" (Clcvcland Museum of Art, Cleveland, Ohio,

1975), no. I 12) and, by implication, by Boucher (op. cit.).

When compared with the Cleveland bron4c the Ashmolcan

version is slightly larger (the base is 13.7 cms. long as against

13.5, 9.8 cms. wide as against 9.5, the distance from disc

fastening to disc fastening is 7.6 cms. as against 7.4) so it is

llot a modified aftercast. In thc Ashmolean versions the

Virgin's fingers are more pointed and delicate, the suspended

hand of Christ is less curled, the knot of drapery under the

Virgin's wrist is less rounded, the hair curling down beside

t.he di'sc fa\stcnings is slightly thicker, the divisions of the

virgin's hair are less parallel, the surfaces gcncrally arc

smoother. The Cleveland version is at every point closc'r to

the Vcrona marble and more typical of sansovino, but the

modifications do not suggest a mechanical copyist.

Furthermore it is wrong to group all the later versions

together. That in Milan has a round base, a rough finish, less

definition in the Virgin's hair, and far tighter curls on Christ's

head. That in Turin, to judge from photographs, is imprecise

in all its dc'tails and mav bc an aftercast. That in the i'ollection of Professor Kcu[ncr resembles the Ashmolean version in

details such as the delicate hand of the Virgin, but is rougher

in finish, with iiumcrous flaws, pitted surf'accs, and cvidencc

of chisclling. It also has textured surfaces, the Virgin's mantle

being heavily punched and chiselled with trefoil flowers. That

sold at Sotheby's in I 990 seemed very close to thc Ashmolca.n

version.

The holes in the backs of the heads in the Ashmolcan gr(]up

suggest that haloes were once fitted to them: these may have

been replacements for earlier haloes to judge from the integral

bronze projection on the top of Christ's head and the filing

marks on top of the Virgin's.


@@86

School of Jacopo SANSOVINO (1486-1570)

86. St Jerome in penitence

26.8 cms. (height including integral plinth); 2. I cms. (height of.

integral plinth); 35.7 cms. (length of integral plinth); 14.7 cms.

(width of integral plinth)

Stone of an exceptionally fine grain with a pale, beige colour, polished

in some smooth salient features such as the knee and forehead. 'Sard

to bc Istrian stone but perhaps a limestone from the northern Vencto

or from Brescia. There are chips missing from the edges of the

plinth especially along the front lower edge, and at both back corners.

The saint's left wrist is broken and has been refixed with some plaster

infill. This was rebroken as a result of careless handling in 1987 and

was refixed by David Armitagc of the Department of Antiquities,

old distorting pla'ster in fill being removed at the same time. There

are scratches to the surface in some areas which suggest cleaning and

vestiges of paint may bc discerned in some folds of drapery. Portions

of an inscription painted in black letters on the back face of the plinth

may be made out: the word 'Eglise' seems to be part of it, and,

earlier in the line, a word including the letters 'racc.'.

Bought in 1962 from the Arcade Gallery (Paul Wengrao of The

Royal Arcade, 28 Old Bond Street, London Wl, with the France

Fund, and with a grant from the Regional Fund administered by the

Victoria and Albert Museum. Registered on 8 March. The sculpture

sccms always to have been displayed in the Fortnum Gallery on top

o[ a cassime.

Ian Robertson, publishing this unusual small stone carving

(the size and colour of a terracotta modello) in the A#»#¢/

Repo7? (1962: 634), felt that an 'attribution to Jacopo

Sansovino may be put forward with some confidence. The

piece plainly shows the high-manncrist character t]f

Sansovino's latest work, and valid comparison may be made

with the figures recumbent in the framework of the bronze

door of the Sacristy of St Mark's (the model for which seems

to have bccn completed in 1546). The latter comparison is

valuable. The torsion of the head and thc' treatment of the

long beard blown against the upper chest also bring to mind

Sansovino's bronze statuette of S A4l¢#47cw on the altar rail

of the Basilica of St Mark's (installed 1553) and his colossal

marble Ncp£#7¢c (1554nd7) on the Scala dci Giganti in the

courtyard of the Doge's Palace. Such comparisons, howevr,

only cnablc us to associate the figure with Sansovino's large

school. The elongation of the salnt's body and the treatment

of the anatomy as a sequence of rounded lumps, loosely if

dynamically related, suggest some of the tcndencics in the

work of his followers which may also be observed in figures

invented by Tintoretto-particularly pertinent in this

connection are the river gods in the spandrels of the library

of san Marco delegated by Sansovino in the mid-1550s to

Vittoria, Cattaneo, Ammanati, and Tommaso Lombardo.

The existence of independent statuettes of st Jcrome can

be connected with the taste for small paintings of him, a taste

which seems to have been particularly strong in the Veneto

by the last quarter of the fifteenth cetury. The Ashmolean

also possesses a tcrrracotta figure 38.5 cms. high, of the

kneeling saint with his lion which was purchased from the

Arcade Gallery (registered 12 November 1960), which looks

as if it dates from the carly sixteenth century.


@@87

SBORDONI (mid-ninetccnth century)

87. Lion

33 cms. (height); 37.2 cms. (length from front to back paws);

40.6 cms. (length of marble slab); 18 cms. (width of marble

slab); 47 cms. (length of.wooden plinth); 23.8 cms. (width of

wooden plinth)

Bronze with a pale green to yellow tan patina. Hollow, probably

lost-wax, cast. Precisely tooled and highly polished. There are a few

small perforations in the area of the mane. Fixed to a slab of Siena

(yellow, flecked with grey) marble, on a rectangular, moulded plinth

of ebonized wood.

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1899. 8. 444 in his catalogues.

Fortnum records that the broil/,e was commissioned by him in

1853. Ijong displayed on top of a cabinet on the staircase outside

the Print Room. Placed in the Fortnum Gallery in 1987.

Fortnum had this lion made (as a companion for the bronze

8#// (No. 162). A lion must seem an odd companion given

the relative natural size of these animals. The explanation lies

in the Sala degli Animali of the Museo Pio-Clemcntino where,

as Fortnum knew, the antique marble prototype of his 8#//

had as its companion (on the other side of a stag carved out

of flowered alabaster) a standing hion after which this lion was

cast. The Vatican LG.o# is fashioned out of a yellow oriental

breccia, of a colour close to that of a lion's coat, fit[ed with

a tongue of 7.oco ¢7¢£¢co and with teeth and claws of white

marble, and is mounted on a plinth of green porphyry. This

'lioncino', ancient, but extcnsivcly restored by Franzoni (scc

Nos. 77 and 78), was regarded as one of the most remarkable

of the items in this now unfashionable corner of the Vatican

Museums. (For an idea of the estcein with which it was

regarded see E. Q. Visconti, Opcre (Milan 1818-37), vii. 52,

pl. XXIX).

The Ljo77 was first described on 30 June of 1780 ('un

piccolo leonc di pietra colombina, che tende al vermiglio

lungo palmi due . . .), and was included in a list of works

recently acquired from the Mendicant Fathers (who owned

the Bashica of Maxcntius where it was excavated), compiled

on 14 September 1780, as item 8: 'lconc scolpito di ccrta

brcccia dalla simile al colt.r naturale' valued at the high sum

o[ 300 scttdi (scc C. Piet[a.ngcH, Scavi e §copette di antichind

sotto il Pontificato di Pio VI (Riorne. \958), 32, 4\). Fortnum

recorded that the foundry which cast his lion was that of

Sbordoni in Rome. The Sbordoni family are still engaged in

metalwork there (the showrooms of Gino Sbordoni and

Edoardo Litardi are at 133 Circumvauazione Clodio).

130

Unfortunately Fortnum is not explicit as to whether moulds

were made of the antique on his initiative or that of the

founder. One suspects it was Fortnum's idea (no other bronze

version of the 8#// is accompanied by a bronze version of the

L¢.o»), but once the founder had the moulds hc seems to have

made at least one other cast.

Another version of the bronze I;o7¢ is illustrated in Bode's

Jf#/G.¢7¢ Rc#¢¢.j:T¢#cc 87o#zcf (1908), iii, pl. CCXLVII, as in

Dr Simon's collection in Berlin. Bode considered this as Italian

of the first half of the sixteenth century and it was sold on

10-11 October 1929, lot 47 of the Berlin sale of simon's

collection, as a Florentine bronze of this period. J. Draper in

his edition of Bode, suggesting that it might in fact be an

Italian seventeenth-century cast, noted that the bronze is now

unlocated. It is in fact in the National Gallery, Washington

(Samuel H. Krcss Collection 1957.14.7), at present displayed

as of the late eightccnth century (presumably because it has

bccn recognized that the prototype was not available previous

to that date), although). Pope~Hcnncssy in his catalogue of

Renaissance Bronze§ from the Sunttel H. Kress Collection

(Ijondon,1965), no. 499, pp. 136-z fig. 563, assigns it

confidently to the second quarter of the sixteenth century.

The Washington L¢.o7g differs from the Ashmolean's only

in its tail, which falls down to the ground on the near rather

than the far side of the lion, and in its rougher surface. But

the ta.il in the case of the Washington I,¢.o# is joined and so

might be a rcplaccment or wrongly reattached, and the

rougher surface turns out on careful examination to bc created

by a dark brown varnish which, where it has worn off, in the

lion's mane, exposes chisclling as sharp and careful as in the

Ashmolean's version. It is unlikely that a craftsman who had

taken such trouble to tool his bronze would have obscured

his workmanship in this way, and it sccms probable that the

varnish was applied by an unscrupulous dealer later in the

nineteenth century to fool connoisseurs into thinking that it

was a Rcnaissancc piccc. This ploy, which was so successful,

depended upon a low estimate of nineteenth-century

craftsmanship and a lack of interest in the Musco Pio-

Clementino among such connoisseurs-and of course upon

the fact that the Ashmolean's bronze was neither publicly

displayed nor published.

A pair of small bronze statuettes after groups of mastiffs

attacking stags in the Sala degli Animali which were lot 126

at Sothcby's, Ijondon, on 12 April 1990 seemed to bc of

similar colour metal, to be fini'shed with similar precision, and

to have identical Sicna marble slabs.


@@88

Workshop of Massimiliano SOLDANI (1658-1750)

88. Autumn (Pomona)

30.7 cms. (height excluding the plinth); 2.5 cms. (height of

plinth); 11 cms. (length of plinth); 8.9 cms. (width of plinth)

Bronze with a blackened varnish scratched and worn especially on

the back to reveal a cool pale green and tan natural patim. Some

traces of golden colour remain, especially on the neck. Hollow, lost-wax,

cast. Thick walls. The plinth separately cast and the figure

attached by threaded tangs projecting from the hollowed intenors

of the feet (but the plinth has been filled with walt, cement, and

wood). The machined gilt metal strap around the lower part of the

plinth has been added to conceal the projection of a wooden block

set into it. Plugs are easily perceived in the back of the figures, each

0.5 cms. in diameter.

Purchased 1963 as 'Flora' from Alfred Spero, 4 Park Mansions

Arcade, Knightsbridge. Registered on 25 November.

Soldani's corespondcnce with his patron Johann Adam, prince

of Liechtenstein (1666-1712), reveals that in July of 1701

the Florentine sculptor had had, for some time, in his

possession a set of clay statucttcs which reproduced the most

notable statues, mostly antique, in the city of Florence. They

had been made by one of his pupils under his supervision.

From piece-moulds of these he could supply wax statuettes.

From these stone enlargements could bc cut by local

craftsmen for the prince's palace garden in Vlcnna, as the

prince had suggested. From them bronzes could also be made

for the prince's cabinet. The prince did not like the dozen

waxes sent to him early in 1702, but by December 1706

Soldani had made the bronzes anyway and offered them to

the prince who was still not interested. This probably indicates

the period at which the bronzes became avallablc', but the

Medici might reasonably bc supposed to have been givcn a

set already and they are likely to havc. served as diplomatic

gifts. A group was in the conection of Johann Wilhelm,

elector palatinc, a son-in-law of Grand Duke Cosimo Ill

de'Medici, as is shown by the inventory of the Dtisseldorf

Gallery on its transfer to Mannhcim in 1730. However, the

Liechtenstein correspondence makes it clear that the original

initiative was not a courtly commission but a speculative

venture, and the number of surviving casts, as well as the

provenance of some of them, reveals that these reproductions

were available to, and were perhaps designed for, the wealthy

tra.vellers whose importance for Italian sculptors was steadily

increasing. This is the market which, later in the century,

Roman founders such as Boschi, Righetti, and Zoffoli (see

Nos.15-16, 79-81,110-15) were to supply with similar

small bronze souvenirs of the antique. The whole episode has

been explored, and Soldani's series reconstructed, with

exemplary scholarship, by Klaus Lankheit in 'Eine Scrie

barocker Antiken: Nachbildungen aus dcr Werkstatt dcs

Massimiliano Soldani' , Adz.#G¢./G¢7¢gc7¢ def Dc"£fc47c7z

Archeologischen Institut§, Roemische Abteilttng, 66 (+958) ,

186-98. To this Charles Avery's article 'Soldani's Small

Bronze Statuettes after "Old Master" Sculptures in Florcncc', stud¢e5 in F,uropean Scttlptttre ('I ,ondon' 1981\)' 122-32,

f(>rms an indispcnsablc 'supplcmcnt.

The Ashmolean's A%f%7%7G, which is recorded by neither

I,ankhcit nor Avery, exists in at least three other versions:

one is in the Gewcrbcmuseum, Nuremberg (Lankheit, op.

cit., p|. 60, no. 3), another is in a private collection, Toronto,

corrrpaLriron with aL vestal virgin (paintings and sculptures,

Hcim Gallery, London (June-Aug.1967),11, mos. 24-5;

Avcryr, op. cit. 126, Pl. 4), and a third is in the rc'scrve

collection of the Bayerlsches Nationalmuscum, Munich

(69/29). Unlike the other bronzes in Soldani's series it

ct)rresponds with a type of bronze statuette well known in

antiqiiity, of which thcrc arc fine examples in the British

Museum (nt>.1513) and in the Ashmolean Museum,

I)cpartmc'nt of Antiquities (1971. I 159). This, however, is a

coincideiicc. and So1dani's model was certainly a large marble

statue in the Uffizi which had been admired in Florence for

o\ier a hundred years (G. Mansuelli, G¢//e7'¢.¢ de2r/¢. UjjE2;¢.: Lc

fc#/f#7~c, i (Rome,1958),154, no.124, pl.120). The

I-orrcspond€ncc in the body is exact except that the drapery

in the broiize is frcccl from the extra siipports in the marble

(supports needed because the marble was itself dcrived from

a bronze prototype). The heads however are quite different.

That on the marble in the Uffi7ji today is not antique but is

an old restoration recorded in the engraving of the statue (as

a Po7%ct#¢) which served as plate LXIII of Gori's jt4:#fGg4%

+T/oyc%fG.7G%7%, vol. iii, published in 1734. Soldani's bronze

must record an earlier restoration, for there is no other instance

in the series of bronzes of such a departure from the oridnal

prototype. It therefore posscsscs considerable interest as

documcn[ing a restoration which came to be regarded as

inappropriate and was rcplaced. The restoration in question

may well have been one for which Giovanni Battista Foggini

or even Soldani himself had been responsible-certainly its

l}Jncal radiance is very much in their manner.


@@89

Probably by Massimiliano SOLDANI (1658-1750)

89. Soldier saint pleading

17.2 cms. (hcight including integral bronze plinth); 1.25 cms.

(height of integral bronz€ plinth); 6.2 cms. (length of plinth);

5.8 cms. (width of plinth)

Bronze with black to brown varnish worn to reveal a chocolate

brown patina. Hollow, lost-wax, cast. A crack across the figurc's

right heel. Near it is a plug; there is another in the figure's left leg

above the knee-both are 0.2 cms. in diameter. There is a crack in

the figure's left thigh under the chain mail. A band of bronze 0. I

cms. wide in the figure's right leg just above the knee presumably

indicates a repair or join '8 422 G' is painted in white on the side

of the integral bronze plinth behind the figure, The hollow plinth

appears to have bccn given extra weight by a second pouring of

t)ronze which conceals the point of contact with one foot, but in

the Indentation, which connects with the other foot, there are traces

of solder and also of an iron pin.

lent by eI). E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888 and given by him

later in the same year. 8. 422 in his catalogues. In his notebook

catalogue he records that it was 'bought of Hatfield' (for whom see

Nos. 55, 264, 265), presumably after 1857 when the preliminary

catalogue, in which it was not included, was compiled.

Fortnum considered that his figure perhaps represcnted

Ulysses in the act of pleading. He attributed both it and a

statuette of a warrior drawing a sword to Adriaen de Vrics

(No. 95), noting that it was 'elaborated with the greatest

care, agreeing prcciscly in manner and workmanship with the

figures in relief on the cuirass of the portrait of Rudolf 11 in

the South Kensington Museum'. However, he also observed

that it was 'exaggcrated, almost Bcrninesquc in manner'

which would of course imply a later, scvcntecnth-century date,

such as now seems certainly correct for it.

Fortnum noted that he had seen one or two later and

inferior casts of the figure. None arc known to me, but there

is a wax version, about half-size (7.92 cms. high), in the

Doccia porcelain factory, less precisely detailed, with the head

differently positioned, and the figurc's right hand intended to

hold something (K. Lankheit, D¢.c %ode//f¢%%/##g d~

Po7zG//¢#7%¢##/¢4£#/ DoccG.¢ (Munich,1982), no. 913, pl.

227). The wax models in the factory were obtained by its

founder, Marchese Ginori, from the heirs of the leading

fanilics of Florentine sculptors, the Foggini and Soldani. This

particular figure is considered by Lankheit to be perhaps by

Vincenzo Foggrni. Jcnnifer Montagu, who first pointed out

the connection with the wax model (letter to Gerald Taylor

of 16 December 1970), suggested that it might correspond

with a 'Giorgio Martire', one of a list of ten saints in an

inventory of models at Doccia made in about 1780 (Lankheit,

op. cit.154). She also wondered whether it might bc

associated with a set of four statuettes recorded in a catalogue

of the collection of 'modcm e figure di terracotta, di Bossolo,

d'avorio e d'ebano' in the 'Museo' of Antonmaria

Biscioni, grandducal librarian in the mid-eighteenth century.

(K. Lankhcit, Z]Jo7c#£G.#G.fc4c B¢zoclep/4Iff¢.4 (Munich,1962) ,

284, doc. 354.) These statuettes were said to be 'dclla mano

di Massimiliano Soldani, e sono tutte di buon lavoro e in buona stato'. They represented S} A724Z7'cw 'appoggiata alla

Croce', 'un S. Pontefice' (a papal saint), S}A##z#f¢.7¢G, and

a 'S. Miniato Guerricrc'. These wcrc said to bc 'circa un

quarto di Braccio' in height, that is about 14.6 cms., which

fits this figure if the fraction was approximate. Therc is in a

private collection in London, as Dr Montagu has pointed

out, a bronze Sf Az4g#ff¢.7?c, clutching folios and extending a

flaming heart, which has the same proportions, long, amply

bearded face, large hands, swaying pose, look of pious

desperation, and shape of phnth. It is also of similar sizc (19.5

cms.; the extra height being cau'sed by his mitre). There is

also, in another private collection, a statuette of a papal s nt

of very similar size and style. The only problcm with this

hypothesis is that, although the Ashmolcan's bronze is of a

warrior saint, he is unlikely to bc St Miniato, who is

represented as a younger man and usually crowned. Hc looks

more likc. a St Georgc or a St Wilriam of Aquitaine or even a

St ljonalnus. On the other hand the compiler was no expert.-

hc. could not identify the papal saint-and might have hastily assumed that Miniato, as the best-known Florentine warrior

saint, was intended. The group seems somewhat miscellaneous

and the saints may once have formed a different, larger group.

In any case they must have. come. from a setting which was

dismantled bcforc they cntered a 'Musco'. Both the

Ashmolean warrior saint and the Sf A#g#Jf;#c require a pretext

for their demonstrative poses which a milliature domestic

alta.r of architectural character might supply. The poses recall

the rhetoric characteristic of Lsaints on the skyline of baroque

churches. Ant)ng Soldani's smaller works in bronze the best

comparison for the cxpressivc face and out flung gesture is

with the oval narrative rclicfs ofAmbrogio Sansedoni of 1692_

1700 in Palazzo Sansedoni, Siena (Lankheit, F/o7.f?#£¢.7¢G.fc4e

B¢7oc4p/¢ffz.4, 40 and 41 cspccially). Equally close are the little

figures made in silver gilt by Pietro Motti in 169] , after

Soldani's designs, for the reliquaries ofs. Alcssio, S. Ralmondo

di Penafort, and S. Pasqualc Baylon (in Cappella dci Principi,

S. Ijorenzo, Florence, 41,109, and 110/1945).


@@90

@@91

Probably by Massimiliano Sol,DANI (1658-|75o)

90 and 91. Pair of door-handles in

the form of busts of lovers in

conversation

io.9 cms. (height of male); 11. I cms. (height of female)

Bronze with a warm tan natural patina. Hollow, lost-wax, casts,

open behind. Brass Bars fitted across the openings.

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1899. 8. 1068 and 8. 1069 in

his catalogues. 'Bought in Florence', before 1857 when included

in his prclimjnary catalogue as nos.14 and 15 (p. 47).

Fortnum, who described these busts as of 'Venus or

Bacchantc' and 'Adonis or Bacchus', regarded them justly as

•\icry clcgant' models and dated them to the late sixteenth or

carly seventeenth century. The elegance-the melting flow

of'drapcry and hair-and languid lyricism are more suggestive

of the late seventeenth and carly eighteenth century and in

particular of Massimlliano Soldani's sculpture in Florence

(where the handles were acquired). The colour, the subtle

punching in the hair, the satin finish of the flesh, are typical

of soldani's bronzcs. The slightly turned-up nose, the parted

lips, and the hair of the female head compares closely with

the head of Psyche in the bronze group of Cg4P¢.¢ ¢#d Pryc¢G

(Staatliche Museen, Berlin-Dahlem, 8/64; U. Schlegel, D¢.G

itahenischen Bildwerke dos 17. and 18. ]chrhundert§

(Staatlichc Musccn, Berlin-Dalilem, 1978), no. 46, pl. 60),

or that of the nymph to the extreme right of his relief of

A#£%%7} (or the I/¢.#%P4 a/B¢cc4%f), and that of the nymph

in the extreme left holding a sieve in his relief of S#%%„ (or

the r7.G.%7%P4 of cG7iGf) both first cast in 1708 (Bayerisches

Nationalmuscum, Munichlater casts are in the Royal

Collection and the Spencer An Museum of the University of

Kansas, Lawrence; terracottas are in Palazzo Pitti, Florence).

The fact that these handles were not ven to the Museum by

Fortnum with most of the others in his collection in 1889

may Indicate his special esteem for them. Busts of a slightly

Similar character, perhaps of the sane date, serve as handles

on the doors leading from the Sala del Settccento in the Uffizi

Galleries. See also No. 92.


@@92

Probably by Massimiliano SOLDANI (1656-1750)

92. Door-handle in the form of a

bust of a half-clad woman

lo.7cms. (height)

Bronze with a chestnut patina and a few traces of a black, or

blackened, varnish. Hollow,lost-wax, cast, open behind. The

threaded tang is apparently integral.

Given by C. D. E. Fortnum on 15 Novcmbcr 1889. 8 1070 in his

catalogu€s. Acquired before 1857 when Included in his preliminary

catalogue as no. 13 'Venus or Ariadnc very graceful' (p. 47).

As Fortnum noted, this is a duplicate of his 8.1069 (No.

91). There are only minor variations, the drapery of this

version being more deeply modelled. Placing it in his

preliminary catalogue before his 8. 1069 (there no.14) may

suggest that he acqLiired it first.


@@93

Style of Massimiliano SOLDANI (1658~1740)

93. Pie fa

45.3 cms. (height); 53.7cms. (length at lowest part); 62.8 i'm'.

(length of \'rooden base); 34.7cms (width of wt)oden h<'se)

Terracotta of a pale cream and pink beige colttur Poorly fired.

Crudely hollowed out from below. There are I(>s''cs t'rom the fourth

toe of Christ's right fo(>t, the end t>f [hc child angel''' right wing,

the index finger of rhc Virgin's nght hand, the large toe of her ngh[

foot. Breaks to the right leg of Christ below the knee, the large tt)e

of his right foot, the child angcl's left wing-tip (in 1987), upper right

arm, and right wri'st, the right hand of Chris[ near the wrist_, Christ's

right arm at the biccp, Christ's left arm at the bii'cp, across his nei'k

and upper chest, and across his abdomen have been rcpaired. Fillcct

cracks-some of them probably breaks-in the Virgin's drapery

near the left ,1rm of chnst and ai'ross her left kni'c' The nght hand

of thi-child angel and the thumb of the Virgin are evldentl}' modern.

An old paper label inscribed 'No. 149' in ink is stuck [o the undcrsidc

of the group. Mouiit-ed on a plinth, irrcguldrly oval in plan, ot' pinc.,

carved and gilded.

Purchased in May 1962 from Paul Wengraf of the Arcade Gallery,

London. Registered in July. One of the first purchascs made by Ian

Robertson after his appointment as Keeper of the Department.

136

on acquisition the group was restored, although to what

cxtcnt is not clcar' but pre'umabl}' old repairs were revised.

Thc restorer was against stripping the tl'rracotta; Robcrtson

was against the idea of restoring the Virgin's foot; a missing

wing t)f' the angel 'turned up' when the restoration \vas under

\\7a\,'. The work was nt]t attriliuted by the dcalcr, but

Ro-bcrtson published it as by Soldalli in the A#»z¢#/ Rcpo#

for 1962, claiming that it shows 'close affinity with a number

t]f the artist's later compositiom in bronze or porcclain media'.

Groups of the PG.c£; or /,¢ovc'72£¢Z-G.o7¢ of this Size were popular

with Soldani, both free standing and in high relief. The puffy_

faced child angel tearfuilly contcmplating (and perhaps

preparing to kiss) the wound in Christ's right hand may be

matched by a rypc t)f child popular in the sculpture of soldani

and so may the elongated and languid face. of Christ. But

Soldani, i'spccially in his late work, gave drapery, hair, and

rockery an agitated horizontal emphasis which is absent here.

A sample was taken from the unrcstored portion (]f the

plinth by Mrs Dorccn Stoncham of the Oxford Research

Laboratory for Archaeology and the History of Art in March

1987 but it was too poorly fired to obtain a firing date from

thcrmo-lumincscencc tests (ref. 381-z-96).



@@94

G,o\i.uilii Frillll-Csl'o 'SUSINT (acti\'e 1592; d.1646)

94. Seated Mars

35 1 ilm (helgllt); 26.5 Cms. (length from proper right f'oot to

h''L'k ot' Iiiound); 12.9 Cms. (height of wooden plinth); 28 ciTi''.

(|ei'gth ot'wooden plinth); 17.2 cnls. (width of wooden plinth)

i}rt,]i/i. \\ ][h <' darkened rudcly browli translucent \'amish liow largely

\\t,rri ttft' tt> ri.\.eal a golden brown patim. Hollow, lost-wax, c<ist,

''|i .Tpp.\rcntl}' In ollc plec-e except for the shield and the halidle of

ti'L' s\\oid (no\'r missing). The Plopcr light chcc-k guald of thc

iTL||mct has been broken off. Plugs of o.5 clns. diamctcr visible (most

oii\io'i' on the figllre'S nght Wrist). '10 FR SVSINI/ FT,OR FA(-,.' ]s

L'hi'c'|led in [hl' mounci uPon whlch the god sits, beiieatli his right

th,gh The stops aLre ot'tmngular form, the left-ers very iieat. Tlie

|',.o|izc H moiilltccl (in a mouldecl maLhogany plinth.

Gi\e|i lu ^\Irs Otto Glltekunst in memory of' her husband in 1953

RL'Lqisri'ri'il (>11 15 July. Thl' bronz,e haci bccn bought in at Christie.''

I,t,i'L|oii' 25 J'Inc' 1953' \''hcre it was lot 10 (with its preseiit pliiith)

Thi. bronze is one of a few signed examples of exquisitely

fini'hed and careful copies of celebrated antique statues which

\\i.ri., as we know from Baldinucci's life, a speciality of

Gi.'nfrancesco 'Susini, .1s they had been of his uncle Antonio.

Thi' ,'iitiqiie marble, now in-the Museo dellc Tcrmc., Rome,

hc'd hccn ''cquired by the I,udovisi in Rome by the first half'

tt[' 1622 and was rccorded as having been restored by 2o June

of th,it }redr. It was gciicrally regarded as ri'prcsenting Mars.

(Si'i' I-' Ht'skcll a]'d N. Penny, r/irffc ¢7?d Zi4c 4»}z.¢#c (London

.'nd New H.i\'en, Conn.,1981), 260-2, for a full account of

its faliic.) This is probably the carliest reproductit>n of it. The

hrt)n/,i' lack'' the sword handle which is onc of the restorations

with which Bcrnini supplied the arl[iquc statue-but this is

lii'i','usc it h<'s been detached. Also absent is the Cupid playing

bi.ni'ath the god's i'xtended right foot, the mt)st notable

i'mbc'11ishmcnt by Bernini. This has bccn cxplalned both as

pri'i'oi'ious antiqu:'rian purism on the part of siisini or his

p.1troii .Ind as e\'idencc that Susini had access to the antique

hi't'orc it \\rtis restored. The former possibility is hinted at by

H.''ki'll .'nd Penny, op. lit. 260, who point out that the

Cllpid is tilso excluded ill the prints of the statue in dc Rossi's

•l\'l\<lloTr!' (\P. A. Mt+fFe.i' Raccolta di §tat-ue antiche e moderne

(Romc'' 1704), pl. I,XVI. LXVII) and in late cightcenth-l'l'

n[llr\' biscuit porcelain versions. Tlie latter possibility is

''ti'tl'd as .' f'act by Pope-I Icnnessy (Jf¢/£.¢7G By/)#zG S£¢£2%f£GJ

wil'torl.I .'nd Albcrt Museiim, London,1961). no.133).

How c'\'cr. if thi' sculptor, and the subsequent draftsmen and

moili'11crs' were using casts after the antique origiml, thcsc'

mcu h.l\'e i'\i'luiled the Cupid bccausc of the complication in

thl' moulds \\hich it would have occasioned. It is, howcvcr,

in(tr(' [1roh.'ble, th,it Susini 4Z¢.d include the Cupid, and it is

'1" Itwlgcr in placc: it would ha\Je bccn separately cast

' tolll'hillg the i\1.'rs at no point) .ind so could easily have been

LIL.t.ll'hed. In this connection it is significant that the plinth

hl'rl' l'.lnl"" be the oridnal one ancl is imlikcly to bc more

tl'i'n Ll hiindri'd vcars old.

Thl. broli/,e mi'}r have bccn one of a scrics of copil's aftcLr

''°tl'l'll' ml'rbles in the I,udo\/isi Collection: Susini also signed

bronze \'crsions of' the /).yG7?.7 G/¢d?.Zzz-o7' (Miisco +\'az.iomle'

B:'rgcllo, Florence) and one of tllc H%„%P/„od¢.}c

(Mctropolitin Museum, New York)-the latti.r dated 1639-

and Baldinucc'i records that hc also made a copy of the J'¢cf%.f

¢7i2d 14r7'¢.¢. (of these, t=hc first And third wcre well-kiiowii

I,udt>visi pieces. Oil the t>thcr hand the He7r7#ap47-tjdz.fc has

been supposed to bc a copy of the \'ersion in the Borghesc

Collection, but it is siirely afti'r [hc version rcstorecl for the

Ijudovisi betwccn 1621 and 1623, for whii'h see Ha'skell cnd

Pcnliy, op. cit. 235).

Among the bronzes in the collccti(in of' Andr6 Le N(^)tri'

was 'Le dieu Mars, assis, d'apres l'antiquc' valued at thi-high

sum of 150 livres (J. Guifi'rey, 'Tcstament et invcntairc apres

d€ces dc Andre I,c N6trc ct autrcs dtti'umcnts li-concemalit',

Bulletin de la Soci4t6 de l'Hi§toire de l'Art Fran[ais (\9\1)'

25z no 365). This might have been rhc As[imolcan LSusini

or another version of it, although no other ver\'ioii has been

tr[iced. No o[hcr small bronzc copy of the M¢7'f thdt I h{ivc

sccn si-ems likely to have been made bef'orc 1700.


@@95

probabl}' by Ferdinando TACCA (acti\'e from 1640; d.1686)

95. Warrior drawing a sword

14. I cms. (height)

Bronze with a natural chocolate-brown I)atina Hollow,lost-wax,

cast Thcrc is an integral base ln the form of' a thin rcctangiilar plate

(,+-bronze, cracked from the central hole whereby it is bolted to a

pi[,ith of ebonized wood. 'e 423' painted in white on the iipper

'iirt'aci' of rhc base behind the fcct.

|jc'nt b}' C. D. rT,. Fortnum on 20 March 1888. Given later in the

same Year. 8. 423 ln his catalogues. Presumably acquired after 1857

\\hcn Fortniim compiled his preliminary catalogue in which this is

iittt Included

This little bronze was considered by Fortiium as 'assuredly'

b\I the same hand as his no. 422 (No. 89 here)-it was the

hand, hc proposed, of Adriacn de Vrics. C. I. Bell in his

.innotations to Fortnum's large catalogue noted that hc did

not .feel sure' of this and recorded Bode's opinion that this

|irt>n7.i-was perhaps Flemish of the period ot' I,ouis XIV.

|cnnifcr Montagu in a letter to Gerald Taylor of 16 December

1970 mcntioned as perhaps of significai]ce the fact that

Massimiliaiio Soldani is documented as having made d model

ot'a 'Gladiatorc in atto di tirarc stoccata' (K. Ijankhcit, D¢.c

Mtldell§ammlttng der Poi'zellanmanuf aktttr Doccia ('Mun.ich,

1982), 334, doc. 671), but she considered the bronzc as earlier

in date. The type of balletic torsion, the arrcsted action, and

thc-c'longated proportions arc found in several of the high

ri'licf ft>ri'ground figures (almost three-dimensional statucttcs)

in the bronze r€licf of the A41¢7¢J7'do% ofs} \Sfcp47c7¢ by

r'erdimndo Tacca, given to S. Stefano al Pontc in Florence

b\' Giovanni Bartolomci in 1656. And we fiiid thcrc the sa.mc

.il-i'rt face, with small chin, large eyes, and sharply tapering

nose, alst) the same stvlc of moustache and of armour. On

the basis t>f comparisons with the bronze relief in S. Stcfano

Ll si'ries t>f lively two-figure narrative groups with subjects

from Arit>sto and Ovid have been convincingly attributed to

Tacca, and this bronzc, which is less than half of the si7jc of

thcsc, looks like half a group of similar character. 'It was

I-Ti'rdinando Tacca', Anthony Radcliffc proposed, when

prlbli'shing thcsc groups, 'who led the way in F'lorencc towards

•1 nl'\\r function for the small bronze group, who trallsformed

lt frtHn all object to be handled or walkc'd aroiind intt> a sort

ttt'mlnlJturc thcatrc to be precisely placed upon a piccc of

ttlmitllrc and to be seen from oric view only' ('F€rdinando

T.'l'l'i'' the Missing Ijink in Florentiiic Baroque Bron7jes', in

[1 KCutnei-(ed.), I(#„ dcf B¢roc4 z.% dcy Tof¢¢% (Munich,

197'6)' 14-23_.iiiotation taken from p. 22). In style the

h'[11rl' is also close to those in rc|iefs attributed to Fanclli but

't '""''' likcl}r that Fanclli derived much of his stvlc alld even

took 'Omc o+' his mode|'' froin Tacca and other Florentines

I \1'1, .llso h'o. 97).

I-\ \'Crslon of this figure \vas lot |51 at Christie's, Irondon'

5 Del'llnbcr ]989, \\/ith an att|ibiition to Fa.nclli. It differed

" that the metal was vcr)7 brassy (it has been polished), all

lit.tL'11'ueri.1i's\'distinct,andth€rewasadoublepllnth(Whlch

't't''T8l\' Sllggc'sts an .iftercast). That thi's version was from a

series pcrhcips mtcnded ft>r a eibinct is siiggested b}' the

roman iiiimcr.'l 'VI' i'hisclleci imdcmca[h the plinth. The

iiaturc of the plinth on [hc Ashmolcaii version strongly

suggc'ts that it too was dcsigncci to bc fixed to a cabinet. A

cast of thc' statucttc wa's attached to a good cabinet oil stalld,

lot 115 at Christii''s, I,ondoli, 5 July 1990. This was exhibited

by Jomthan Harris at the 1991 Grosvenor House Antiques

Fair with the information that it was recorded in an inventory

of 1724 at Dra}'ton House, Northallts. The cabinet \vas

decorated with plaques of pale bcigc marble with dendritic

markings framed in ripple mouldings. It has bccn dcscribed

as Flcmi'sh but may bc Italian. The companion bronzes were

of similar fini'sh, btit far less intercstiiig design.


@@96

Perhaps by Ferdinando TACCA (ai'tivc from 1640; d. 1686)

96. Inkstand in the form of

Orlando pulling the Orc from the

deep

15.4cms. (height); 12,I i'ms. (length of broiize plinth); io I cms

(width of bronze plinth); 14.5 cms. (length of wooden base);

11.5 cms. (width of wooden base); 4.5 cms. (height of wooden

ba,\e)

Bronze with a natural warm chol'olati- patina. There drc a fc'w trdces

of darkened varnish, eg. around thc' strap fixing the arms to the

jaw. Hollow, lost-wax, cast in one piece including the plinth. The

intenor is now fined with plaster of Paris in \'Jhich a screw is set

fixing the bronzc to a walnut base. 'B.-84.e=' painted white beliind

the Orc.

Ijcn[ by eI). E Fortnum in October 1894 and bequedthed by him

in 1899. No.1084 in his catalogucs. 'For many years in the Passerini

family . . . At Professor Passerini's death (the entomologist) it \'Jas

'sent to England by Frcppa the dealer and bought by mc in . . .' The

date is omitted in the large catalogue. In the earlier notebook

catalogue there is a fragment of a letter by Freppa in French from

Florence. The acquisition was presumably made after 1857 bccausc

it is not rccorded in the preliminary catalogue compiled in that year.

For Frcppa see below. It is almost certainly 'the Ccllini inkstand'

recorded in an MS 'memoranda of prices pald' iinder 1860 with

the very high price of £35.

Fortnum catalogued this 'qualnt and charming bronze' as

Florentine of the first half of the sixteenth century. The

subject, as seems first to have been pointed out to him by the

dealer Freppa, comes from the most popular'vcrsc romance,

not only of sixtccnth- and sevcntcenthcentury Italy but of

the whole of modern European literature, the 07i/¢7Gde/#7¢.on

by Ariosto. The Orc is a sea monster placated by the

inhabitants of the island of Ebuda who feed him damsels. He

is first mentioned in Canto 8 when Angclica is kidnapped and

chained naked to a rock to await this fate. In Canto 10

RugLicro, flying by on his hippt>griff, espies her. The Ori' is

approaching-a huge coiling mass uiilikc any animal exccpt

for its head which has the protruding cycs and teeth of a bt>ar

(stanza 101). Ruggicro fights it from his flying steed with

sword and lance:

Likc battle with the snapping mastlff wages

The audacious fly on dusty Augiist days (stanza l05)

but he cannot penetrate the Orc's skin. Eventually he succeeds

in stunning him with a reflected beam from his magic shield.

Hc then carries off Angelica to a nearby wood and at the close

of the canto hc is furiously stripping off his armour, o\Jcrcomc

with dcsirc for hcr. In caiito 11, Angelica saves hcrsclf just in

time-making herself invisible by placing a madic ring in her

mouth-and the frustrated Ruggrero is involved in an(>thcr

adventure. Another hero, Orlando, arrives to find the revived

Orc abt)ut to devour another fair victim, Olympia. Hc strips

off his armour, and gets in a tittle boat cquipped with a small

sword and a huge anchor. When the Orc advanccs upon him

he jams the anchor ill his open jaws:

So prudem mmers prop the tunnel as they crawl

Ijcst as the\' hiick thi' rock in from the roof behincl them fall.

(stanz,a 43)

F,ntering the Orc's throat orlando ''lashcs at it with his sword.

When t.h€ Orc dives he swims ollt and then tllgs the monster,

which is bclchiiig blood and thrashing foam, to shore (stanza

43). For obvious rcasom Taci'a has altered the relative scale

of the Orc implicit in the pot.t's similes and he has also put

the hero t]n the Orc's back, rather th{in on a nearby rock, as

hc hauls dt the anchor cable. A part of the anchor may

originall}7 have been visible in the monstcr's mouth.

This certa_inly docs not prove that the brollze is Italian, but

thcrc are parallels with other pieces which would sccm to be

Italian (compare, for example, the ornanient on the integral

bronze base and the convolutions of'thc monstcr's tail with

ornament and tail in the inkstand with a mermaid, No. 233),

and there is the F[orelitinc pr(>vcnancc, \+'hii'h also suppo|t

such all assumption alld maki' us doub[ the suggestion that

the bronze might be Gcrm'an. (In addition, there is the

armt]rial evidclice set out below.)

Fortnum and Bode seem both to have known the piece

when it was still with Professor Passcrini, and ''o did

Alcssandro Castellani the si'holarlv Roman dealer. The fact

that it passed through the hands 6f Frcppa, who was exposed,

in 1868, as the employer of the forger Bastianini, might

otherwise have given cause for alarm. I-'ortnum noted that it

had long been rcgarded by the Passcriiii as 'thc work of

Benvcnuto Cellini' and he con'sidcred that it 'has very great

affinity' with Ccllini and was especially rcminisccnt of the

'trcatment' of the rclicfs on thc base of the Pcrfc#J in Florence

and the 'ac'tion on the Vienna salt ccllar'. Castcllani thought

it 'might bc by Bambala an opini(]n not shared by Dr. Bode

or by mc, wc. agreeing rather in its Ccllini manner'. Bode later

classed it as Venetian t]f abttut 1575 (Jf¢/;¢7¢ Bro7?2;c S}#J%c#£J

a/f¢c Rc7¢¢¢.fj.¢7zcc (London,1907-12), iii, fig. 22).

The fragmentary letter fr(]m Freppa, also refcrred to, reveals

that hc also suggested to Fortnum t:hat the arms on the

esciitcheon hung by a strap o\'er the mt>nster's iipper jaw

were those of the Rondinelli family t]t' Flt>rcnce. The bearings

are a chevron between three stars of six points; in chief a label

of four bctwccn which arc thrcc fleurs-dc-lis. The crest is a

salamander. C. F. Bcll sccms to have fiirther investigated the

arms and noted that the hlics and label in chief-part of the

bearings of Anjou-suggest that it bclonged to a family which

had, or once had, Guclf affiliations. Michael Maclagan

examined the arms in May 1977 at the suggestion of

Christophcr Lloyd and reported that they looked authentic,

also distinctly Italian rather than German (the suggestion that

the bronze was German had recciitlv been made), cspeciall}'

bccausc of the Guelf factor (already-mentioned by Bell). He

considcred that it could refer to onc of' two Italian houses:

the I,api of Bologna or the Scarlatti-Rondineui of Florencl.'

more probably the latter, although their stars should normall}'

have eight points (a detail to which a modc||cr might not have

felt inclined to attend).

Another \'crsion, sold on 7 April I 97o at Sotheby's, Ijondon

|T,\L|A'T SC|TLI'TITRES NAMED ARTIST

(it,I o5), ri''old .'t Philli[)s, London, '30 ^\T(>\'i'mbi'r 1976 ('1ot

r; ,' \\.i' liought b}r D. Katz (then of 22 Gros\'eiior Square,

Loiii|ttii L It ls .l[1Proxim.ltl'I}' the S.lIlli' si/,i' hut looks froin

photoigraphs as if it was neither modcl[ed nor chased with

L.omp.mblc i'arc' .lnd might even bc a modified aftercast. The

L'hiL't' diffi'rcncc IS t.hat it lacks the cscutchcon, the hero has

r„ ttr|ia_nii'rml llot>ts' alld the sword blade has bc'en broken

oH'; hilt in tidditlon many details are simplified in form and

iL" 'h.trpl}' finislled. The base mollldings have no corncr

|L.,'\c' .ilitl comist o+' inl'ised lines \\ithout raised rcctaligular

I.|L.mclits 'iipcrimposed, the rope is less definccl (and is not

nL&|itl}' iir.1wn), the fins alld tail arc less llIldcrcut and the

friiige .ilt>ng thi' back less minutely defined. Mr Katz in his

letters to the Dcpartmi]Iit in 1979 obscn'i.cl thi' Li'1ationship

liot onl}' with the Mi'rmaid inkstaiid (No. 2'33) but al'so with

the small bronz,c statucttc of a \''.ir or dr.u\'ing a s\\Jord (No.

95) whii'h is iiidced of very similar metal, fiiiish, and i'harai'ter,

alid it is siirprising that Fortnum himself, who owned both

items, did not note this colilicction. The figure looks \'ery

similar in the face aiid the armoiir to those b\7 Fcrdinando

Tacca and it is surc'ly rclcvant that among the larger groiips

conviiicingly attributed to Tacca arc \sevcral from Ariosto,

including one of Angclica eluding her excited 'saviollr bv

placing [hc ring in her mouth as hc tc'c'rs his clothes ofi'-

(Louvre OA. 7811).


@@97

After a model perhaps by IL'erdinando TACCA (active from

1640; d. 1686)

97. Marcus Curtius leaping into the

gulf

29.2 cms. (hcight); 44 cms. (width)

Leacl with a ruddy gold brown 'bronze finish'. The lead is partitally

di'scased (possibly t'rom storage in an oak cupboard), disfiguri'd with

white efflorescence, as well as scr'1tched and beilt (c'sp€cia_ll}r in the

lower c(>rner to prt)per right). An arm of the warrior by the haiik to

proper lcfr has been brt)ken off, as has part of the hero's right hand.

The righ[ forearm of the warrior nc'arest the rear legs of the horsi'

is broken but not dctached. The elcmell[s in highest relief-the hel.(I

and some of'his moimt, the head and one leg of the dog barking

at him' and much (>f' thi' \varrior leaning forward-are sepa.ratc'l}'

cast and let into I-hc relief. Scratched on the rear arc the words

'pROvENANCE uNCERTAn'' / THls I>IAQur', wAs FOuND IN A / Ri,TSKTN

st_'Hool, CABINF.T t Ri',r'F,RLNCE sERIEs) / 1976'

Provenance uiiccrtain. See scratched inscnption above.

A bronzc verLston of this relief measuring 27 x 41 cms. in the

Staatliche Musccn, East Berlin (inv. 5042), was published in

E. I . BaLng€' Staaliche Museen zou Berlin: Bildwerke der

c¢yg.jf/a.c¢c7¢ EPoc¢G7¢,Ill, ii (Berlin,1922), no. 53, and pl. 20,

as an anonymous late seventeenth-century work. There are a

number of minor variations: the Berlin version docs not

include a stump beneath the horsc's belly but does have trces

on a hill slope rising above the horse's tail; it does not include

a spire on top of the distant tower, its foliage is defined more

b}' punched marks than 'sh(jrt lines, the warrior lcaiiing

fttrwarcl ht)lds his tt)rch or baton in an upright p(>''ition, and

thc' dog appears to bite thi' horsc's leg. Neither \'crsion is of

high qualit},' (altht>ugh thi' bi-on7jc is supcrior ttt the lead) but

they seem liki'ly to reflect somc superior prototype. Anthony

Radcliffc prt>posed in a ft>t)tnotc that this might have been by

Ferdinando Taci'a (.Fcrdimndo Tacca, the Missing Link in

Florcn[ine Baroque Broiizi's'' in H. Kc'urllcr (ed.), Kz¢#j'f dcj

B¢yocfe z.7¢ 4Ze7-'/'(;f¢¢7¢¢ (Muiiich,1976), 23 n.) and there are

numerous point's of comparison \'ith Taci'a's bronze relief of

the Mfl}rty7rdo7# o/.'Sf S'f¢¢c» (given to S. Stcfano al l'ontc in

Florcncc b}r Gio\'anni Rartoloml'i in 1656): in both there is a

mixtilre of a few figures in very high, almost detached, relief

with pictorial low relief and landscape; the same open poses

of the high relief fig'irc'', the sunle denscl}.' composed choral

groups, the same intcrprctation ttf an[iquc dri'ss, the same

I(>ng-bearded sagc's. Francesct> Faliclli ha'' also been suggested

as the author of the Berlin relief 'ind it is similar to the reliefs

c>F the (',arrying of the Cro§s a:nd the Holy Family in the

RoZJ4c7'''f Ho#tc which he is known to ha\'e cast but it is not

certain that thcsc comp{)'sitions were invented by him and in

any case Fanclli may well hivc bccn indebted to Ferdinando

Tacca or ot.hcr Florentine sculptors of that date.

Another version of this rclicf, in bronzc, less high and with

only minimal landscape bai'kground \vas lot 154 at Sotheby's,

I,ondon,13 December 1990.


@@98

Royal porcelain factory, Naples

After a model by F'ilippo Tommaso TAGLI0LINI (1745-

1809)

98. River god

21.55 cms. (height, including plinth); 22 cms. (length excluding

projecting foot); 10.5 cms. (width)

Biscuit porcelain, somewhat scratched and much discoloured from

engrained dirt. Hollow cast, open below the plinth. There is a firing

crack in the reverse of the figure. The uppcrsidc of the large toe of

the god's right foot and the cnd of the index finger of his right hand

have been broken off and are missing.

No provcnancc recorded.

Having been awarded the first prize for sculpture in the

Consorso Clementino at the Accademia di Sam Luca in Rome

in 1766, Tagliolini travelled to Venice in 1767 where hc

worked for at least six years in a porcelain factory, moving

probably soon afterwards to the porcelain factory in Vienna,

whence in 1780, apparently at the request of the king of

Naples and the Two Sicilies, and in company with a furnace

technician, Magnus Fcssler, he travelled to Naples to work

for the royal porcelain factory there. By 1781 he was appointed

'capomodcllatore'. He worked under the inspiring direction

of the artistic adviser to the court, the learned and cultivated

Marchese Domenico Venuti (1745-1817) and was

responsible for modelling a succession of graceful and delicate

biscuit statuettes, many of them after, or inspired by, antique

statues (and especially those locally available from the Farnese

Collection and the excavations at Herculaneum and Pompeii),

some of them incorporated into highly ambitious groups and

extravagant presentation dcsscrts composed of numerous

figures. He was chief modeller until the sale of the factory

under the French in 1807 and was employed in the final years

of his life in restoring antique sculpture. Tagliolini's biscuit

statuettes are unmarked and have often been confused with

the contemporary productions of the Volpato factory (see No.1o6). The full extent of his activity and the quality of his

work have only become clear with the pubhcation of Lo

scultore Filip|]o Tagliolini e la Porcellana di Napolibry Aiva|

Gonzalcz-Palacios (Turin,1988).

A list, compiled in 1805, of models made at the factory

since 1776, with their prices, includes, under the section

headed 'scrie di figurc', 'fiumi sedenti' for seven ducats

(presumably each) and in the inventory of the factory, made

when it was sold two years later in 180z a number of river

gods arc also rccorded, including a group rcprcsenting the

four parts of the world valued at forty-eight ducats (ibid. |7|,

196). Gonzalez-Palacios lists surviving versions of such river

gods in Naples (one at the Musco di Capodimonte (inv.

5268) is coloured and givdc'd, one in biscuit is in the Museo

di San Martino (inv. 273), and another is in the Museo

Artistico Industriale, Naples (inv. 96) and in Turin (Museo

Civico 1543). None of thcsc is now part of a group. The first

two cited are adapted from the less familiar of the two statues

of the NG./G in the Vatican Museum (ibid., no. 59). The

Ashmolean's statuette, which is very close to this N;/G

statuette in size, general character, pose, and the modelling

of beard and drapery, may correspond with the example in

the Museo Artistico Industriale (h. 21 cms.) of which,

however, no illustration is available. The plinth of the

Ashmolean statuette is of a pattern, more or less regular in

shape but slightly suggestive of rock-work, favoured in many

antique marble sculptures whereas those of the Nz./G statucttcs

have smooth sides, but such variation is not unexpected and

both forms of plinth were favoured by the factory (for other

rock-work ptinths see ibid., nos 3, 29, 30, 33). Further

confirmation that the Ashmolean river god was modelled by

Tagliolini is found in the figure of Time on a porcclaln and

ormolu clock in the Museo di Capodimontc which is adapted

from it (Gonzalez-Palacios, op. cit., no. 71).


@@99

Unknown foundry, probably Roman

After Bertel THORVALDSEN (1770-1844)

99. Venus

14cms. (height; 4.35 cms. (diameter of base)

Bronze with a dark grey patina, with hints of green. Very heavy,

probably solid, cast. A tang project from the integral base

(photographed with an improvised plasticine support)

Given or bcqucathed by C. D. E. Fortnum (the large catalogue is

not annotated so it was probably only received after his death in

1899). 8. 429 in his catalogues. According to the notebook catalogue

'bought at Naplcs', apparently after 1857 when the preliminary

catalogue, in which it was not included, was compiled.

Fortnum supposed that this was probably cxccuted in Italy in

about 1815 (large catalogue) or '1815-20' (notebook

catalogue)-i.e. at the period of Thorvaldsen's full-size statue

of which it is a miniature reproduction. Thorvaldscn created

his Venus between 1813 and 1816. It was bought by the

banker Henry Laboucherc and taken to Ijondon, but a cast

remained in the artist's studio. The cast is now in the

Thorvaldsen Museum Copenhagen (A. 12), as is the marble

(A. 853). A simhar small bronze of the Vc##f is in the Musco

Nazionale di Palazzo Venezia, Rome, mounted on an

alabaster base.


@@100

@@101

@@102

Unknown manufacturer

After Bertel THORVAI,DSEN (1770~1844)

100, 101, and 102. Three strips of

a relief representing the triumphal

entry of Alexander into Babylon

3o.6i'ms. (length of No.loo); 32cms. (length of No. |01);

4o.9 i'ms. (length of No 102); 5 cms. (height of each strip)

Br("„ with a yellowed varnish. No. loo has a rusty deposit on top

ot-the bronze presumably from storage near iron. There arc pin

ho|c's in the corners of all three strips. Thi-lt)wer corners of No.10|

ha\'c been Iorn off around these holes.

Pr(tvenancc unrecorded.

Thorvaldsen made his plaster fri€zc t>f the Trz."77£p¢ o/

4/et~¢7zde7. (as it was commonly abbreviated) for the Salone

d'onore in the Quirinal Palace in 1812. It was planned in

collaboration with the architect Raffaclc' Stern with a

programme devised by Vivant Denon and Martial Daru for

the anticipated official visit of the modern Alcxander, the

Emperor Napoleon. The work was repeated during the 1820s

in plaster for patrons in Munich and Frankfurt and in marble

for the Palace of christiansborg at Copcnhagcn (subsequently

dcstroyed by fire) and for Giovanni-Battista Sommariva's Villa

Carlotta (8.)®macs, '11 patriarca dcl bassorilicvo', in Bc7?c/

'/77orp¢/drc79 (Galleria Nazionalc d'Arte Moderna, Rome,

1989-90), 45nd). The portion showing the emperor on his

chariot was later repcated, with revisions, as one of a. scrics

of reliefs for the courtyard of Palazzo Torlonia in Rome in

1837. The frieze enjoyed enormous fame and was also

reproduced extensively outside the artist's studi{+in plaster

for staircase halls and in marble for chimney-pieces in British

houses, for example. Fine plaster miniatures were sold to

tourists in Rome and these metal strips, which are imprccisely

modelled, may derive from aftercasts of such plasters. Mass

production seems already to have been envisaged by 1825

(E. di Majo and S. Susinno, 'Thorvaldsen e Roma', ibid. 24

n. 66).

Scenes of quiet rural life in ancient Babylon (No.loo) give

way to preparations for the conqueror's reception (No. 101)

and the actual homage to him and his cntouragc with a

personification of Peace greeting his chariot (No. 102).


@@103

Style ofAndrca VERROCCHIO (b. e1435; d.1488)

103. Head of a youth

25.2 cms. (height); I i .8 cms. (height of socle)

Imperial porphyry. There is a break through t-he front of the neck

and the lowest part of the hair behind. Some of the cement, tinted

to match the porphyry, is now apparent in the join. One promineiit

curl at the centre of the front of the hair has bccn broken off and

the stump recarved to conceal the loss. Chips arc missing at the

front of the chest. The crown of the head and the imderside of'the

bust at the back are only roughly finished. (See below for a discussion

of this.) The head is mounted on a turned dovegrey (4¢7'd¢j/£o)

marble soclc. '1975.86' is painted in white on the back of.the prong

attaching the head to the socle. A visiting card engraved 'Miss Joan

Evans' is scllotaped to the undcrside of the Socle. On it is written

'Bought at Conway Sale 1951 for £68 / Bought by Frank Conway

in Venicc 1912 for 1500 lire (£50).'

Given by I)r Joan Evans in 1975. Registered on 15 July. See above

for provenance on card. I'laced on display in the Fortnum Gallery

in October 1989.

The head seems ncvcr to have bccn displayed in the Museum

and has attracted little scholarly attention. It was rcgistered,

and described in the A###¢/ RGPo7¢ (1975: 30), as 'Roman'

but 'refashioned probably in the ninetccnth century'-a note

in the Register indicates that Conway, the previous owner,

had suggested that the reworking had taken place in Florence.

The character of the head is very distinctive and recalls the

youthful male ideal of Andrea Verrocchio most familiar from

his bron7jc D¢i7¢.d, t.ut fouiid also in paintings of his school

such as no. 296 in the National Gallery, London. It is likely

to be a modern work in the Renaissance style, dating from

after 1850 when the appreciation of verrocchio and the taste

for his particular contribution to Florentine art began to

become popular; but it is possible, as Alastalr Icing has

pointed out to me, that this is in fact a Florentine sculpture

of the early sixteenth century by Pier Maria Serbaldi da Pescia,

called '11 Tagliacamc' (1455-e1520) who was the very first

sculptor to revive the carving of the figure in the notoriously

hard material of porphyry. The difficulty that the sculptor has

had in carving the stone (cspeciany evident in the hair) does

suggest an carly date, and is reminiscent of the bust of

Po/vyky%„¢.¢ in the Kunshistorischcs Museum, Vienna (no.

3529) and the small group of Vc7a#j w;£¢ C"p¢-¢ signed in

Greek (Musco degli Argenti, Palazzo Pitti, Florence, no.

1067-A. Giusti (ed.), Sp/c7¢dorz. d¢. p¢'Gfyc d"7ic (Palazzo Pitti,

1988-9), 74-5, no.I. The portion of rough-hewn stone

under the neck suggests that the head was dcsigned to bi-inserted

in a bust made of marble or stone of a contrasting

colour. The treatment of the crown of the head, roughly

worked but without any attempt to indicate the hair, suggests

that it was designed to be covered by a crown or cap perhaps

of gilded metal.


@@104

pL'rh.lps b},' AICssandro VITTORIA (1525-|608)

104. Bust portrait of a bearded man

6o L-ms. (height); 45.3 Cms. (width across shoulders); 12 cms.

(hcigh[ of block base); 25 cms. (length of block base); 23.2 c|ns.

(\'idth of bloi'k base)

\\i',tc C{'rrara marble with numerous pale grey and rusty patches

1(,st pronounced on the drapery and in the moustache and nostril

t„ the proper right side of the f'ace. The bust has had additional

bit,L-ks ttf marble added under each shoulder. The surface is abraded

The bust has bccn mounted on a block of serpentine, with

L-L',iii'nt cilsunng that it rests level on the block-the marble is cut

bAi'k so that it Would naturally tilt upwards.

Bt,light frt)in Rodne}' Thesiger of Messrs. Colnaghi, Bond Street,

ig56 Registered on 5 March. 'Sold to Mr Thesiger by John Gere

\\htt bought it at the sale of Thomas Harris, Christie's, London, 22

Nti\'cmber 1951, lot 84. Photographs taken in the 1960s show the

butt tMi A free-standing pedestal in the Farrcr Gallery. It has been in

ri'ser\'c for ''r least a decade.

Ill the Harris sale the bust was catalogued as a self-portrait by

Alcs'sandrt> Vittoria, but there is no good reason for this.

That it is close Io many portrait busts by Vittoria is however

unquestiomblc: an interesting comparison may be made with

the bust of Alessandro Contarini (d.1553) set in a tondo of

the black marble pyramid tomb in the Santo, Padua, or

with the bust of Marcantonio Grimani (d.1565) set within

a shell niche above an epitaph in the first north chapel of

S. Scbastiano in Vcnicc, both of them signed works. This bust

too must have had a high mural, probably sepulchral, setting,

within a church or chapel and the adjustment of the back of

n palts

the bust stronaly suggests the sort of modifications required

for display on a pedestal in a gallery oncc it was removed from

a tondo or niche recess. Some parts of the bust are very finely

carved, most notably the flesh around the eyes and in the

cheeks, and the beard beside the ears and below the lower

lip. On the other hand the deeper channels cut into the beard

with a running drill arc crude and seem unhappily related to

thc chiselling. Perhaps when set in place the shadows in the

beard did not tell and nceded correction. A coarse use of the

drill is found in some busts which are signed by Vittoria (one

which it is possible to study closely is in the Louvre-

Chauchard b€qucst 1910, M. 213) and similarly isolated

channels are evident in the beard of the bust of Ottavio

Grimani (Staatliche Musecn, Berlin-Dalilem, no. 303). The

beard is not undercut, little thought has been given to its

meeting with the neck, or to its relationship with the folds of

drapery-no undercutting has bccn attempted in these folds

and their pattern is routine. But these dcficicncics are not

uncommon in Vittoria's signed work, much of which must

have been carved by assistants of varying quality. Bruce

Boucher, cataloguing the sculpture in the AIts Council

exhibition 47SdrG¢ P¢//¢d¢.a J508-J580 (1975),133, no. 238,

comments that

the bust is similar to a number of portraits by Vittoria during the

1570s and 1580s and is probably the work of a contemporary

sculptor, well versed in Vittoria's style. The treatment of the high

forehead, the hair, and the well defined cheekbones invites

comparison with the terracotta and bronze portraits of Tommaso

Rangone (in the Museo Correr and the Ateneo Vencto respectively),

which were probably commissioned from Vittoria in the 1570s.


@@105

Thcodorc de VOGHEL (active 1590s)

105. Stipo in the form of a

miniature temple decorated with

scenes from the New Testament and

the Trojan War

32 cms. (height); 26 cms. (length); 24.6cms. (breadth)

Rosewood, ivory, and ebony. There arc eight small drawers. In

addition the entire base of the temple fa¢ade serves as a drawer and

the entablature as two drawers. Two sei'rct slides I-evcaj four long

drawers in the back. Some small picccs of ebony veneer ha\7e t'allen

off to proper right near the fcct and are prcscrved in the drawers.

The rosewood has been quarter cut to give a particularly rich figure.

The pi€cc of ivory inserted in the centre of' the underside of the

temple is engraved as follows: '.l'HI',ODORUS/ in VoGHli;I,

FIA / NDER. SUAFj CATHO / LICAF. MAIF',STA'lIS/ BELI,ICORU,Vl.

TORMF.-/NTORUM. MAGI'sTF,R. / NL',Apol,I. I.'F,crl / 1593'.

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum,1899. Bought by him for £30 ar

the sale in 1884 of the Castcllani Collection (in Rome? It is not in

the catalogue of the 'Objcts antiques du moyen-age et dc' la

rcnalssance d6pendaiit de la succession Alessandro Castellani', sold

H6tel I)rouot, Paris,12-16 May 1884). F. 21 in Fortnum's

catalogues. Fortnum purchased another, larger, 'stipo of ivory and

ebony f'rom the Castcllani Collcction (F. 22) which he bequeathed

t.o Mrs A. C. King of Oxford.

De Voghel was a mastcr gunsmith for the king of spain:

firearms in this period were often ornamented with rosewood

and engraved ivories. Bctwccn 1588 and 1600 he was working

on the intarsia of the sacri'stry of the Ccrtosa di San Martino,

Naples. Had these ivories all been designed for a sinale stipo

they surely would not have been such an odd mixture of

sacred and profane subjects. The scenes on the little drawers

represent the A7272#"ca.4}£G.o#, the V¢.J¢-£#f¢.o7g, the N¢f¢.".ty, the

Adoration of the Shepherds, the Ma§§acre of the Innocents> the

Flight, the Lamentation' aLnd C,hrist disputing with the

I)ttcfo7~f, with the Ado7i¢fzo7¢ of £¢e Kz.7cgf in the lower frieze

and (,'od £4}c F¢f¢cr presiding above. There are larger plaques

engraved w.Ith the Jttdgement Of Paris, the Rape Of Helen, the

Flight Of Aeneac' aLnd the Gods in Dispute on the s;idcs and

tt>p (>f the 'stipo. Moreover, had the series of New Testament

scenes been intended a.s drawer fronts then the artist would

have taken into account the need for handles. As it is the

turned ivory handles interrupt the compositions crudely, on

one occasion obliterating much of the Christ Child. A similar

stipo was lot 234 at Sotheby's, New York, 22 June 1989.


@@106

Factory founded in Via Pudcnziana, Romc, by Giovanni

VOIjpATO (1733-1803)

106. Melpomene

28 i-ms. (height); I cm. (height of integral plinth); 10 5 cms

(length of integral plinth); 6.95 cms. (width of integral plinth)

Biscuit porcela]n badly discoloured from dirt. There is a repaired

break across the lower part of the mask, the adhesive now

discoloured brown. Part of her right hand is missing. Her left hand

is missmg and the stump is discoloured with old adhesive. There is

a slight firing crack across the back of the figure. The front face of

the plinth is impressed 'MELPOMENE'. The proper right face is

impressed 'G VoLPATo ROMA', the 'V' and 'R' in larger capitals. A

relatively clean rectangle to proper left of the impressed name on

the front face of the plinth indicates the former position of a paper

label. 'C. / 471. / e' is painted in black on the drapery behind the

figure, above the plinth.

Given by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1888. C. 471 in his catalogues.

presumably acquired after 1857 at which date the preliminary

catalogue, in which it is not included, was compiled.

The statuette is a miniature copy of one of the Muses in the

Vatican Museum. Fortnum also owned a full-size copy in

white marblc. of the bust of the same antique Muse-see No.

20. Giovanni Volpato was practising as an engraver in Venice

before he cstablished himself in 1771 in Rome whcrc he

engaged in the highly acclaimed production of huge and

futhfully coloured engravings of Raphael's Ijogde

decorations, produced reproductive prints after Raphael and

the Caracci, and was involved in speculative excavations of

sculpture. Hc opened a factory in 1785 in Via Pudenziana in

Rome making biscuit porcelain reproductions of antique

sculpture such as this. The factory moved in 1793 to Strada

Urbana Monti, Vicolo della Caprareccia 142. A printed

'Catalogue des Statues antiques, groupes, ct Dessert de

I'orcellaine en biscuit, de la Fabrique Jean Volpato a Romc'

is included among the lcttcrs of C. H. Tatham to the architect

Henry Holland for whom he was acting as an agent in Rome,

providing items and ideas for interior decoration. 'Apouon

Cyth6r6 avcc lcs ncuf Muses du Museum Vaticanum' was

priced at 40 zecchini (then, approximately, a little under £20),

but each of the ten figures was also available for 4 zecchini.

Tatham, writing to Holland in 1795, marked the Muses as a

'vcry beautiful collection'. He noted that 'Madame Angelica',

that is Angelica Kauffmann, recommcnded Volpato's ceramic

figures and that they were of the 'whitest porcelain similar to

the French-but very superior as to design, workmanship and

art'. In fact the porcelain was not always so white. The version

of the il4lc/Po7cec#c in the Cini Bequest (347) in the Capitoline

Museum is a slightly pinky yeuow colour as are the £'#£eapc

and 7l¢¢/z.¢ (but not the TG7PJ¢.c¢o7ic and C/z.a) exhibited in

the Volpato exhibition in the Gabinetto dci Disegni e Stampc

in the Farncsina, Rome, January-April 1988.

The Via Pudcnziana factory is said to have produced cream

coloured earthenware as well as biscuit porcelain. The factory

at Civita Castellana, which was opened in 1801, produced

coarser and cheaper figures in 'terraglia all'Inglcse' with a

gloss}7 yellowish glaze, many of them after the antique. The factory was managed by Giuscppe Volpato, who is also said

to have managed the earlier factt)ries. Giuscppc outlived his

father only by a couple of years, and thc business was then

managed by his widow Maddalcna Righi and her second

husband, the factory's chief modcllcr Franccsco Tinucci, until

1818 when it was taken over by Giuseppe's son Angelo who

managed it until 1831. In addition to the A4lc/Po7»e#c and the

Sf/ofcp47 (No.107), Fortnum owned a pair of cream glazed

vases (C. 467 and C. 468-Nos. 530, 531) and a cream

dazed oval plaque with a scratchy low relief of the VG.rgG." ¢»d

C¢¢./d w¢.£¢ S£/o¢„ in a landscape setting (C. 469), but these

are not products of the Volpato factory as he supposed.


@@107

r'ac«]pr t'ounded by Gio\'anni VOLPATO (1733-1803),

Civiti Castcllana' near Rtimc

|o7. St Joseph with the infant

christ

27.2 cnis. (height),1.7cms. (height of integral plinth); 12.7cms.

(length of integral plinth); 8.8 cms. (width of integral plinth)

r',arthcn\''.irc with a Cream Coloured lead glaze, yellowy grc€n where

th,ckest (in some folds of drapery), with minor imperfections. Chips

ArL. missing from the edges of the drapery and the ridges of its

t'o|ds-~a large chip from the lower edge above the advanced right

t'oot. |osses: the fingers from Chrlst's left hand, the whole of his

nght arm below the biccp, and the lowest pomon of both legs.

•\Toi,p,i'io ROMA' is impressed on the face of the plinth to proper

left. 'C. / 470. / e=' is painted in black on the drapery above the

plinth behilid the figure.

Gi\Icn b}' C. D. L', Fortnum in 1888. C. 470 in his catalogues. A

separate memorandum among his papers dati'd 1875 indicates that

h€ paid £210s. for it but where is not stated.

Fortnum described this as 'beautifully modclled in the fine

earthcnware' alld noted also that the mark 'but rarely occurs'

on such picccs-vidcntly it appealed to him for both its

artistic and documentary value. There is another version of

the figure among the Bequest of Conte F. Cini (displayed

without a number) in the Capitolinc Museum Rome, which

has the sanie glaze, also slichtly green where thickest, and

similar minor imperfections. The only significant diffcrcncc

is that the plinth of the Capitoline version is far less regular,

and it is unmarked. The factory produced other devotional

subjects in this carthenwarc (for example, the C¢yG.f£ ¢£ f¢G

Co/#%7? in the Capitoline Museum, impressed like the

Ashmolcan's Sf /ofep¢) as well as some classical oncs (for

example, the C#P;d ¢7¢d Pryc¢c in the Capitoline Museum).

For Volpato and his factories scc No. 106. St Joseph may

ha\'e had a special significance for the Volpato family:

Giovanni's son Giuseppe (Joseph), who died in 1805, seems

tti have managed the factory at Civita Castcllana where these

figures were lnade, and after 1831 Giuseppc 11 Volpato revived

the family business, increasing, according to G. Morazzoni

(La fc7"gr/a.¢ ¢.ffl;/¢.fl[#¢ Milan, n.d. I 1956]), 5z the

manufacture of saints.


@@108

Probably factory founded in Via Pudcn/jana, Rome, b}'

Giovanni VOLPATO (1733-~1803)

108. Pope Pius VI on horseback

35.3 cms. (height, incliidmg intcgr<il oval plinth); 17 clns. (height

of integral oval plinth); 22 cms. /length of' integml oval plinth);

13.7 cms. (width of Integral oval plinth)

Earthenware with a grecnish cream colourecl le{1d glazc, The glaze

is pcppcred where the granlilcs in the earthenware body project.

Three breaks in the raised front left of'thc horse have been mcnded,

A crack behind the other front leg has bccn filled. S(>me losses to

the popc's left foot and thc' stimip have been made up, cind the

thumb and two raised filigers of his rtiised hand are al"t repairs (this

was perhaps done 'soon after the onginal firing) The reins to proper

right h<ivc broken off except where they fall from the pope's hand;

parts of the reins to proper left ilrc also lost.

Purchased from the dealer Alfred LSpcro ot'4 Park Mansion'' Arcade,

Knightsbridge,1965 Regl,'tcrecl on 22 September

Pope Pius VI (clccted 1775, d.1799) is here rcprc\scilted as

he appeared in the processional Poffcjfo after his election,

wearing a 7#¢7¢tc'//c#zz over his rochct with a %oz2;c#¢ and

embroidered stole and hat, riding a (white) palfrcy with

elaborate caparison, ble'ssing his people. The Braschi arms

decorate the pier supporting the belly of his mount, although

the bending flower is less distinct than the three stars and the

wind blowing at the flower is impossible to discern. There is

another version of the group in the City Museum and Art

Gallery, Kelvingrove, Glasgow (SMT 101) with a creamier

colour, less granular tcxturc, and crisper details. The Glasgow

version is better prcscrved although the popc's right foot and

au the ta'ssels of the saddle-cloth arc missing. An(>ther version

is mentioned as having been cxhibited in 1889 in the Musco

Artistico Industriale di Roma (G. Morazzoni, L¢ }c7y¢g/G.¢

££¢/,'.¢7¢¢ (Milan, n.d. [ 1956], 57). The group has sometimes

bccn associated with the calthcnware products of the Civiti

Castellana factory which Volpato opcned in 1801 but it differs

in its granular body and the coloiir of its glaze from

carthenwarc figures stamped 'VOI,PATO' (such as No. 107)

which one might also suppose to have bccn made at Civita

Castellana, and by 1801 I'ius VI had died. If the group is

correctly aLssociated with Volpato, as seems very probable, it

its far more likely to have been made at the Via Pudenziana

factory which Volpato opened in 1785-specially since this

entcrprisc enjoyed the official protection of pius VI. The

factory was chiefly noted for its biscuit figures (scc No.106)

but did also make other wares.

The same model, but with the face and arm's of pius VI's

siicccssor Pius VII (clccted 1800), was employed for a painted

terracotta in the Victoria and Albert Museum. J. Pope-

I:.:nne?sry (in. his Catalogue of ltahan Sculpture in -the

V¢.cfo7.¢.¢ ¢7¢d A/Gc7¢ %%fc%7% (ILondon,1964), ii. 67z no.

722), unfamiliar with the carlicr ceramic statiiettes, claimed

that this terracotta recalls the 'sketch models' of Pinelli, but

thcsc are far more lively in handling and are iievcr heraldic in

composition (see No. 75). This terracotta may well have been

produced by the Civita Castcllana factory, either shortly after

its foundation or when the pope rcturned to the Vaticaii in

May 1814.


@@109

D.inielc RICciarclli da VOLTERRA (e1509to6)

109. Michelangelo Buonarroti

28 cms. (helght from lowest polTion of the neck to the top of the

head); 16 i'ms. (height of soclc to lowest portion of bronze);

20 cnis. (diamctcr of soclc)

Bron/e \\ith a dark brown patina. Hollow, lost-w.ex, cast. Walls of

unc\'cn thickness There arc some minute perforations and [i finng

L'rai'k to proper left of tllc nose. Thcrc is no evidcncc of tooling of

an\r kj|id. The lowcs[ part of the neck hcls bcen broken and refixed

\\ith solder. A skln cJf the original core remains in much of the

i|itcrior but has been partially concealed by a pouring of modern

plaster of Paris into the uppermost part of the head. The head is

mounted on a turned, walsted, and moulded walnut soclc made for

exhibitjon in [h€ Dep{1rtment of Prints and Drawings in the British

[\|usciim ill 1975 (An earlier socle of similar form, but of

'crpentinc-and 23.3 clns. hlgh-1s in storage.) In the last centiir\/'

the head was mounted on a bust of pla'ster, presumably bron7jed-

'ce I . C, RIchmson, rThe Dramng5 by Michel Angelo a;nd Raffikello

;# f¢c LJ%n"zfz.ey G¢//GyG'ef (Oxford,1870),10] , no. 90, who

dcscribed this as added 'at a recent period'. It can, however, be seen

in an undat€d engraving of Tawrencc's sitting room at 65 Russell

Square (reproduced as Fig 4 on p. 27 of K. Garlick, 5TG.7. 777o%¢f

I,¢%7yc#cc (Oxforcl,1989).

Given by William Woodburn,1845. Presumably lot 392 in the sale

of the collection of sir Thomas Ijawrence, Christic's,19 June 1830,

'A fini' original Bust of Michelangelo Buonarroti in bronze-size of

life', boiight by 'Woodburn' (which member of the family ls

unspecified) for the high price of 40 guincas. Conccivably purchased

b}r Samuel Woodburn and bequeathed by him to his brother

william. In any case given to the University Galleries to accompany

the drawings by Michelangelo, also from Lawrcnce's collection,

which had been bought from Samuel Woodburn. The £T¢#dGoo¢

G'z".dcT of 1859 and 1865 record it as in t-he Raffaelle Gallery, the

present Fortnum Gallery, where the Michelangelt> drawings were

displ.1\'ed. It seems possible that Ijawrence acquired the biist from

thc' collection of Rjchard Cosway in whose inventory of 1820 and

earlicr sclf~pormit drawing such a bust featiires (information from

Stcphen I,loyd).

Although Daliielc da Voltcrra is now remcmbered chicflv for

his work as a palntcr, he was, as is clear from Vasari, an ;ctive

and important sculptor. He seems to have made decorations

ln stucco as well as fresco for Cardinal Trivulzi's villa at

Salone, in a room of Palazzo Massimi in Rome hc was

rcsponsiblc for 'molti partimenti di stucco ed altri omamenti',

f'or the chapel of Elena Orsina in S. Triniti, Rome, in 1541

hc created a 'most beautiful and varied' stucco surround for

his cclcbrated altarpiece of the DGpofG.£G.o7¢ including two figures

Sllpporting the altar frontal. And that this work consisted in

more than making designs for craftsmen is suggested by the

fact that lie was a skilled maker of ca'sts: Vasari specifically

ml'ntlons that he made moulds of Michclangelo's sculpture

ln the Medici Chapel in S. Lorenzo, Florence. His direct

l'Xpcrlencc t]f bronze casting is also clear: Vasari describes his

bronze equestrian statue of Henry 11 of France, in which

i\Iichclangelo assisted him, but which was not complete at the

l'nd t]f 1559 when |>ius IV bccamc pope. It is presumably

becallse there exists relatively little by him which i'' not in

stucco, and because works in stucco are so little cs[ecmed bv

art historialis, that hc obtains no mention at all in the standard

survey of Italian sciilpture of the sixtccnth century (that by

Pope-Hennessy).

The inventory of Danielc's house (formerly Michelangclo's)

made on 5 April 1566 was published by Bcnvcnuto Gaspart>ni

in his rare and eccentric periodical miscellany I/ B#o77¢7irofG.

(vol. iii-but in reality vol. i-(Rt>m€,1866),178-9).

Among 'infinitc teste et pczzi di figure di gesso', wax models

and casts, some specifically connccted with the equestrian

statue, there arc listed 'una testa con petto di bron7ji di

Michelagnolo bonarroti' and, in another 'stanza da basso',

'due tcste di bronzo con petti di Michelangnolo' and, in yet

another 'stanza da basso', .Dua testc di Michelagnolo con

teste di bronzo', and, in the 'stanza di san Pictro', 'um testa

di bronzo di Michelagnolo con busto'. It is clear from this

that bcforc his death Daniele had made at least six casts of'

Michelangelo's head, of which three were heads alone, thrcc

iiicluded at least a portion of the chest, and one was with a

proper bust (that is assuming that 'con petto' and 'con busto'

are meaningful distinctions). This documcnt has perhaps not

received the attention it descrvcs: no other sculptural portrait

head of the Renaissance before this date is recorded as existing

in so many versions. It would seem that the sculptor was

capitalizing on the demand for a likeness of his recently

deceased friend. Other evidence suggests that hc would not

have regarded these bronzc casts as completed. But hc might

already have disposed of Lsome that wcrc.

It would seem that two of the casts were intended for

Michelangelo's ncphcw, Lionardo Buonarroti, to whom

Daniele Lconi wrote on 6 October 1565 that he had reminded

'Danie11o' about them. His own cast was 'a buon termine'

which would make I,ic>nardo want to have his own cleaned-

'di fare rincttare'-that is filed, chisclled, and polished, as

soon as possible. From this it would seem likely that Daniele

would have wanted the bronzcs to bc fini'shed. He was,

however, ill and he died carly in the following year. Lionardo

was informed by Jacopo dcl Duca on 18 April about the

'teste di metallo' which had been cast by 'Mcsscr Daniello'

but needed work 'con cisclli ct limc', and he was not sure

that Lionardo would a_ppreciatc them as they stood. For his

part he wanted Lionardo to have 'il ritratto delta bona

memoria di missere, non d'un altro'. Lionardo must do what

hc deems best. The imphcation is that he, Jacopo, would try

to obligc if Lionardo 'so desired. 'Daniello', had he lived,

would have known how to finish them, but as for Ills men--

'questi soi genti', a reference to I)aniclc's heirs, Michele dcgli

Alberti and Feliciano da S. Vita-it was not clear what they

were capable of. The first of thcsc 'genti', Albcrti, wrote to

Ijionardo at the same date with word that the bronzes had

been cast and could be i'leaned within a month.

By 26 August 1570 a portrait head was in the hands of

Michclangclo's servant Antoiiio del Franzes€, who offered it

in a letter of that date to the duke of Urbino. He described

it as 'il vero ritratto di Michclangnt>lo Bonarroti gia mio

padrone, ct a di bronzo dcsigmto da lui proprio' (A. Gotti, Vita di MichelanLqelo Buonarroti (+.torcncc' 1875)' .i. 373--

the letters to Lionardo cited above <ire on pp. 372--3). Of the

surviving versions of the bronze portrait it is most likely that

thc one in the Musco Na?,ionalc. at the Bargello, IJ.loreiicc,

wllich is sc[ in a dignified, cl.'s''ically draped, bu''t on a ver\'

elegant socle, must lic tlic one oH'cred by Antonio tt) the

duke-the trcasurcs of the diichy of Urbiiio being transferred

to the Medici in the seventeenth century anci then, in t.h€

ninctcenth being ab'sorbed into the state museum. Alone

among these bronzes it is highl}' finished. (It has somc'times

been attributed to Giambologm, whose participati(>n woiild

bc less unlikely had it been in Florence in his lifetime.

Giambolt)gin is also credited with the vcrsitm in the Casa

Buonarroti.)

The following is a list of the whcrcabouts of' the other

versions, excluding that in the Ashmolcan: Bayonnc, MusC'e

Bonnat (No. 345); Florence, Accadcmia; Florelicc, Casa

Buonarr(]ti; Milan, Brcra; Milan, Caste[lo Sforzcsco (297);

Rome, Capitoline Miiscum (Palazzo dci C,onscrvatori);

Rome, Museo di Pala7zo Vcnc/ja (Auliti Collei-tion, no.

10806); Paris, Mus6e Jacqucmart-Andr6 (no. 141); Paris,

Musec du Ijouvre (R.F. 2385); Rimini, Musco Civico. Of

these the versions in Casa Bu(]narroti, the Brera, and the

Capitolinc are fitted with busts, the first two of bronzc and

the third of 4¢j¢.a A4/77t¢f/) (antique dark grey cloudy marble).

The Ijouvrc, Casa Buonarroti, Bayoniie, and Palazzo Vcnezia

versions are cast with portions (tf the collar (and that in the

Capitolinc Museums also has such in addition to a bust,

although it is broken); the Jacqucmart-Andre and Rimini

versions include more of the chest, scparatcly cast; the

Ashmolean and Castello Sforzesco versions are heads only.

The heads in Rimini and the Bargello have Ionger and inorc

curled beards. The degree of chisc'lting is varied: none is

apparent in the I,ouvre, Jacquemart-Andr6, Castello

Sforzesco, or Ashmolean versions; thcrc is some in the

Capitolinc version which has a dull smooth finish (most

notable in the Beard), miich in the Casa Buonarroti vcr''ion

and in the Bargcllo version (as has already been observe.d).

That some of the busts are aftercasts seems likely. The

thorough rcsearchcs of Fortnum for his paper 'on the Bi-onzc

Pttltralt Biists t>f Michel Angclo Attributed tt> Daniele da

Volterra and Other Artists', published in Arc¢#co/ogz.c¢/

/o#?'7¢¢/, 33 (1876),168-82, includes measurements of the

Capitoline, Casa Buonarroti, Bargcllo, Accadcmia, Ijou\7re

(then Piot), Jacqucmart-Andr€ (then Cotticr) heads which

suggest that none of these fall into this category. Thi' version

in Rimini looks suspicious (it is reproduced in I. 'Stcinmann,

Die Portrait§tellttngen dos Michelangelo (I irp'ij-ng' L913), p^.

59). That in the Castcllo 'Sforzesco, Milan. looks as if it must

have been made from a very battered wax mt]del, perhaps

after Daniele's death (ibid. 61). Its surfai'e is vcry rough and

imprecise: the moustache is ver}r smudged and ncithcr pupils

nor irises arc marked.

The fact that Fortnum took such an interest in these

bronzcs ma}J seem curit>us. It reflects, of cttiirsc, his t]wn

interest in the collections in oxford and, still more perhaps,

the fact that the bronze nt>w in the Louvrc, but then

belonging to Monsieur Piot, had t)cen purchased 'fr(ml a

private possess(]r at Bologna, several years since, in whose

hands I had previoiisly sccn it, and regret, too lati., having

ncglccted to secure it ft)r m}J own collcction' (Fortnum, op.

cit.176). Fortnum also owned the wax model made by Lcone

ljeoni for his medallion portrait of Michclangclo (now British

Museum, MLA 1893,10-11,I ; onc. of a few important items

which hc ga\Jc to the British Museum rather than to Oxford

and the subject of another paper in the A7c4¢co/og¢.c4I//o#77c¢/,

32 (1875),1~15, which is prclimillal|' to the paper on the

bronze busts).

Robinson observed of Daniclc's portralt that it 'represents

Michel Angel(t in his cxtrcme old age' and it seems to have

been mttdelled from naturc' (op. cit.101). Fortnum agreed

with this but the 'hcavy look of the eyelids and the closed

mouth' suggested to him that it Lmay ha\/'e been made from

a mask taken after dcath'. Both 'Mr. Warringtt>n Wood, the

em]nent si'ulpt(>r (tf Rt)me' and 'Profcssor Emilio Santarel|i,

a sculptor well known [o fame, and whose knowledgc, arising

from long and loving study of the works of the great

rc#¢z.jr##cc arti'sts, is perhaps unrivalled in Florence' (see Nos.

8 and 27 for his dealings with Fortnum) both indcpendcntly

cxprc'ssed the same opinion to Fortnum. It is an opinion

which receives some support from the cvidcnce that most,

and probably all, of the pttrtralts were cast posthumously and

it has been repeated ever since. However, the flesh is neither

drawn nor sagged, the features are not sunk, the eyes seem

t>pcn (rather than opened), and, above all, the portrait is

surely not of somconc in their 'extrcmc' old age. The head

resembles one in a drawing by Danielc in the Teyler Museum,

Haarlcm (A. 21), which was made, or was at least used, for

the portrait of Michelangelo inscrted into a fresco of the

4.ff%owP£;o7¢ a/£4c V¢.7g. ¢.7¢ in the Dclla Rovere Chapel of S.

Trinita dei Monti, and probably completed by 1555. (For this

drawing 'sce the entry by 1'. Ward-Jackson in Dr¢w¢.7?gr/ro7#

£4c r/lay/cr „#Jc"7#, H¢¢7i/c7# (victoria and Albcrt Museum,

Ijondon' 1970), no. 75.)

It is likely, however, that Danicle's portraits were revered

rather as death-masks were-as reliable likcncsscs not works

of art-and this may explain why so few of them wcrc in the

end finished. It is tempting of course to suppt>se that despite

the cvidencc of the contemporary letters wlrich we have

c|uoted-lcttcrs which were, after aH, written by people with

an intcrcst in finishing the bronzcs~thc lack of finish, the

untooled lost-wax cast, was then appreciated by some

connoisseurs. Certainly the ostentatiously untooled character

of Giambologm's jwo#¢ey (Mus€e du I,ouvre, OA. 10895)

and T#7i4ey (Bargello, Florence) and of vincenzo Danti's

DCTcc7¢f/ro77z z47c C7itijf (National Gallery, Washington)

suggests that such ct]nnoisscurs did exist. We may, howcvcr,

bc sure that Michelangelo was not hinself amoiig them, for

Ascanio Condivi in his authorized life remarks apropos of

Donatcllo's work in bronze that Michelaiigclo praised

Donatello for cvcrything except t.hat he lacked patience in the

cleaning (7-¢.Pz//a./) of his works s(> that, though seeming

marvellous from afar, from nearby they lost their reputation'

(Vita di Michelangelo (Rome,1553), para. 20).

Some of the casts Daniclc made included the 'pctto' and

in one case perhaps more. It is likely that the portion of

hL,,tt,iiL'il-Hl tunic. Which i'' P.TIT of the Liciiiiemart-Aiidri; i-.'st

t I... Ill. Li ,\I0llrl'}'rl' GJ\'Ot}'' '''f%/Pf#7.C j.f¢/jc'7z7i?4'.. jw7Lffc'c.

/„7„„f-jl#d„ (l'arls' 1975), no 141) would be dcscribctl

„ .\ .[tL'[to. I..ithcr thLln a .busto'. (lt is scparatcly cast but

'L,rc|\. orlgHlal: 'llthollgh no\\. joilled \vith soldi.r thcrc arc old

mL.(.i| s[r.ip .1tt.1i'hmcnts.) In any i-asc Lsuch a termination,

\\|T[L'h woulil .'t .llatcr date have bei'Ii unconv€ntiona||y

mt,lil.stt i.t-trrespond' with the unhcroic, c\'en domestic,

L.|T.ir.ii-ti'r t)f the hc'.lc1. In this l'asc' as .'lso in the \'er}7 diffcreiit

'L'tti,ig tlf the bllst in the Capito[inc' Museum, the hci'd is

t]|ti'i| f(n" ard \vllich gi\'c' an appropriatc melancholy to the

hL'k ot' i'\plii'it l.Xpression and stlggests a setting high on a

„ .'||' i'\ on .ih(->\'c a door, such .1s was frcqucntly t''.'voured in

hftL'iiith' .'nd earl}' Sixtl'enth-i'elltury interiors. By colitrast

t|TL. in.'nlii'r in w'hicll the Ashmolcan head has been moiinted

„ L,iifoitiiliiitc. A turllc'cl soi'le for a head without a neck is

iiii'\ i[.'hl\' pi'ri'Ci\.Cd ds .1 sort of parody neck.


@@110

@@111

Supplied by Giacomo (e1731-85) and Giovanni (e1745-

1805) ZOFFOLI

110 and 111. Pair of vases

34cms. (height of vases including plinths); 11.6 cms. (height of'

pedestals); 9.4cms. (length of plinths of vases); 9,'3] cms. (width

of plinths of vases); 12.6 cms. (length of plinths of pedestals);

12.5 cms. (width of plinths of pedestals)

Bronze with a patina varied from very dark brown to chestnut with

some dark green. The plinths and upper mouldings of the pedestal'

are fire-Slt. Hollow, lost-wax, casts. Each vase is composed of at

least three separately cast pieces+=ap; body with foot and plinth;

pedestal. There may also bc a division between the bodies and the

feet. There are slight casting flaws under the top moulding of the

stem of one foot. 'G.Z.F.' is chiselled in the sides of the plinths of

the vaLscs, in one case below a. handle, in the other centred.

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortniim in 1899. 8.1124 and 8. I 125 in

his catalogucs. According [o the notebook catalogue, given [o

Fortnum by Ellen Rigby in mcmory of her faiiier (cf. Nos. 179 and

181).

Giacomo Zoffoli was a goldsmith, estabhished in Rome by

1758. Giovanni (his brother, cousin, or nephew) and he came

to be one of the four principal suppliers in Rome of bronze

reproductions of antique statues: Righetti and Boschi were

two of their rivals (see Nos.15-16, 79-81). The Zoffolis

seem chiefly to have supplied sets of bronzcs of a size suited

to display as chimney-piece ornarncnts. The earliest work

associated with them is the copy of the Mfl!7.c#f A#7ic/G.#f

signed by Giacomo and dated 1763 (in the Green vaults,

Dresden) and the set of five bronzcs brought back to England

by Francis Russell, marquess of Tavistock, from his Grand

Tour in the same year (C. Avery, 'Bronzc Statuettes in

Woburn Abbey', Apo//a (Fcb. 1984), 97-8). British travellers

on the Grand Tour were certaluly among the principle

customc;Is (see The Treasure Hot4se§ Of Great Britain

(National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC,1985), 358, entry

A. Radcliffc). Thcrc is no need to suppose that either of the

Zoffohs was directly involved either in the making of models,

or in the business of casting or finishing the bronzes, although

a background as goldsmiths suggests that they might have

been expert at the latter. It is safer to regard them as publishers.

We know that they commissioned clay models from

established Roman sculptors: Vinccnzo Pacetti recorded in

his diaries in 1773 and 1774 making a F¢77cae F/or¢ and a

Bo72174cJg Hcrov¢P4#od£.£c. They may then have put the task of

making casts out to small Roman foundries.

There is a printed list of 'Serie di figure fattc, e da farsi in

bronzo deu'altczza di un palmo c mezzo bono romano' offered

for sale by 'Giovanni Zoffoli Romano' (whose home and

'studio'-i.e. showroom-was given as ¢4o7JG the

'Vermicellaro alli Avinioncsi', the pasta makers in Via degli

Avignoncsi off strada Felice in Rome, an impossible location,

incidentally, for a foundry, as Anthony Radcliffe has pointed

out to me. A copy of this was supplied by C. H. Tatham to

Henry Holland in 1795, and survives among his papers in the

Victoria and Albcrt Mu'scum. Tatham was acting as Holland's agent in Rome, supplying him with ideas and items for interior

decorat:ion. zoffoli's list included sevcli \'ases-the Medici

Vase, the Borghcsc Vase, the Albani Vase, the Giustiniani

Vase, the Gaeta Vase, and t''Jo which woiild seem to have

bccn inodern designs, a 'vaso a uma' and a 'vaso a Pila'. This

pair being closed with lids, arc likcly to bc thi' former, which

were priced at 20 zecchini (then a litt[c less than flo) each.

The shape is close to that of the Medici Vase but with handles

like those of the Borghese Vase. The designer is not known.

For Zoffoli gcncrally see 777G 7-yc¢f"7'c Ho"fG+ o/ G7'c¢f

Br!.f¢z.", op. cit. 358 (entry by A. Radcliffc) and H. Honour,

'Bronze Statuettes by Giacomo and Giovanni Zt)ffoli',

Co##o¢.jfc#r (Nov.1961),198-205.


@@112

Supplied by Giacomo (e173l-85) and Giovanni (e1745-

1805) ZOFFOI,I

112. Farnese Flora

34.2 cms. (height including integral bronze plinth); L2 cms.

(height of integral bronze plinth-pproximate because sunk in

marble plinth); 10 cms. (length of integral bronze plinth); 9.3 cms.

(width of integral bronzc plinth); 4.6 cms. (height of marble

plinth); 10.8 cms. (length and width of marble plinth)

Bronze with a mixed dark and pale green varnish, chipped and worn.

Hollow, lost-wax, cast. There is a perforation from a casting flaw

in the h€cl of the figure's left foot exposing some vestigial core.

There is also a plugged hole in the ankle of the figurc's right foot.

'G. zoFFol,I' chiselled on the proper right side of the integral bronze

plinth in irregularly sized and inexactly aligned capitals. '8. 446. e'

is painted in white on the side of the integral bronze plinth behind

the figure. The bronze is mounted on a black marble plinth.

I~cnt by C. D. F„ Fortnum in 1894; bcqucathed by him in 1899. 8.

446 in his catalogucs. No provenance given in his large or his

notebook catalogue, but in his preliminary catalogue (pp. 3040)

noted as acquired in Paris togcthcr with No.113, the copy of the

4Po%"a, in 1853. According to a separate 'Mcmoranda of prices

pald', apparently under the year 1852, '2 Zoffolis. Flora and

Apollino' are entered with '6' (pounds, presumably) opposite.

For the famous antique statue in the Museo Nazionale,

Naples, of which this is a copy see F. Haskcll and N. Penny,

T¢f7G ¢#d £¢G A#f¢.g#c (New Haven, Conn., and Ijondon,

1981), 217-18. The bronze rcproduccs the statue before the

revision (by Tagliotini, see No. 98) of the floral attribute from

chaplet to nosegay. It is probably derived from a clay model

made for the Zoffolis by Vincenzo Pacctti in 1773, and in any

case certainly from a model made before 28 February 1800

when the statue left Rome for Naples. For the Zoffolis

generally see Nos. I 10 and Ill. The 'Flora di Farnese' was

the twelfth item on Giovanni Zoffoli's printed list and was

priced at 18 zecchini, the same price as the equivalent on the

list of his rival Righetti. The model was surely made before

1793 when another bronze was probably acquired by Lord

Boringdon as part of a set still in place on a chimney-piece at

Saltram Park, Devon, where it is companion with a Cap;fo/G.„c

F/o7:¢. Another bronze F¢77ceJc I/o7r¢ is at Schloss W6rlitz.

The green varnish on the Ashmolcan's version would seem

to bc original and is found on other bronzcs by Zoffoli such

as the C¢P¢.fo/G.#G A7gf¢.»o#r in the Victoria and Albert Museum

(Reserve Collection, A.15-1974), which appears to have been

very little intcrferred with and even retains what may bc an

origival paper label, and the pair of F#rS.c#¢. CG#£##rf,

unusually signed 'GIACoMO ZOFFOLI F', which were lot 112

at Christie's. Ijondon, 28 April 1988. C. H. Tatham in a letter

to Henry Holland sent from Rome on 10 July 1795 discussing

bronzcs of this type mentions that the 'bcst colour' in Rome

was 'estccmed to be that which approaches the colour of

green basalt' (Victoria and Albert Museum, D. 1479. 14-

19), i.e. the rare Egyptian graywacke, basarite, commonly

misdescribed as basalt.


@@113

:';8|;I)''-ziob:F(5aLC[°mo(CT73]-85)andGlovanni(ci745~

113. Apollino

34. I ciiis. (height including integral bronze plinth); 2 cms. (heicht

of integral bronzue plinth-approximate because it is let into the

uoodcn plinth); 13.2 cms. (length of integral bronze plinth);

8.5 cms (u'idth of integral brollzc plinth); 15.4 cms. (length of

\',oodcn plinth); 10.2 cms. (width of.wooden plinth)

Bronze \''ith a dark green khaki varnish, worn to a paler coloiir in

;,c:[=asr.a::,,:,hct;'stc.:I:¥sct:[d:::,;[o¥L::est,.sw;:;sct:,:tgE:I;::ntch:capfr:sper

nght t.oot ancl a crack under the proper left arm. 'G /,OFFoL|' is

Lhisclled' on the side of the integral bronze plinth beside the proper

nght foot, in irregularly sized and Inexactly aligned capitals with the

:1,(L:len:7;!T[,::I:::t8cL::ill;rr::z'eBp#n:h/be:L'n];:harem:Cg:(::¥]i]:eb::Tntzhec,s

moulited oli an ebonized wooden plinth.

I,cnt bv C,.1). r',. Fortnum in 1894; bequeathed by him in 1899. 8.

tl7 in.his .-atalogllcs. 'Bought in Ijondon' according to his

|it>tebook c'atalogue, but in his preliminary catalogue (pp. 3940)

|ioted as <icquired in Paris together with No. 112, the copy of the

F¢y7%„ J]Joy¢, in 1853. According to a separate 'Memoranda of

prii'cs pa]d', apparently under the year 1852, '2 Zoffolis. Flora and

Apollino' are entcred with '6' (pounds, presumably) opposite.

For the fanious antique statue in the Tribuna of the Uffizi,

Florence, of which this is a copy, see F. Haskcll and

N. Pcnn}r, T¢ffG ¢#d £47e A»f¢.g#c (New Haven, Conn., and

I~ondon,1981),146-8. The bronze is made from a very

accurate model and even reproduces the integral irregular

rounded-off rectangular plinth on the oriSnal marble,

although this did nothing to help the figure match the

companion picccs with which it would usually be sold to

t't)rm aL4¢7„£.J"71c dc c¢Gaej";c. For the Zoffolis generally see

Nos.Ilo and Ill. The APo//G.#o was the second item on

Giovanni Zoffoli's printed list and was priced at 15 zccchini,

thrci. zccchilii [css than the equivalent on the list of his rrval

Rlghctti, And less than other items of the same size on his

o\vn list. rrhc lower price may suggest that it had been in

prodliction for some time and the title 'Apollino di Villa

Medii'i. ma}' suggest that the model was made before the

statui' \vas rcmoved to Florence from the Vma Medici in

1769-70 (although the old name no doubt survived on the

Pldstcr edsts remaining in Rome).


@@114

Supplied by Giacomo (e1731-85) and Giovanni (e1745-

1805) ZOFFOLI

114. Capitoline Antinous

33.3 cms. (height including integral bronze plinth); 2 cms. (height

of integral bronze plinth in front); 9.05 cms. (length of integral

bronze plinth); 8.2 cms. (width of integral bron7je plinth); 3 cms.

(height of wooden plinth); 11.3 cms. (length of wooden plinth);

10.45 cms. (width of wooden plinth)

Bronze with a dark brown varnish, chipped slightly, and worn in

salient parts to a golden brown patina. Hollow, lost-wax, cast.

There arc casting cracks across the figure's right wrist and

perforations at the junction of figure's right leg with the tree stump.

'G Zo['FOLI. F' is chisclled in irregularly sized and inexactly aligned

capitals below the stump on proper right side of the integral bronze

plinth. The bronze is mounted on an ebonized wooden plinth.

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1894; bequeathed by him in 1899.

8. 448 in his catalogues. 'Bought in Ilondon' according to his

notebook catalogue. In his preliminary catalogue (pp. 3940) noted

as acquired in London together with the C¢P¢.fo/¢.aec F/or¢ (No. I 15)

in 1852. According to a separate 'Memoranda of prices pald' under

the year 1851 he noted 'Antinous 44' (4 guineas).

For the famous antique statue in the Capitolinc Museum,

Rome, of which this is a copy, see F. Haskell and N. Penny,

T¢jfG a"d fde A7¢fz.g#e (New Haven, Conn., and Ijondon,

1981),1434. The bronze is made from a less accurate model

than was usual with Zoffoli: the third, fourth, and fifth fingers

of the youth's left hand are bent upwards in the marble; the

bark of the stump is given a far more ostentatiously tively,

clawed texture in the bronze. On the other hand, as sccms

to have been a policy with Zoffoli, the integral unmoulded

block plinth of the original marble is reproduced, although

this did nothing to help the figure match the companion

pieces with which it would usually be sold to form agr¢#¢¢.f#rc

de c¢cow¢.»G'G. For the Zoffolis generally see Nos. I 10 and Ill.

The 'Antinoo di Campidoglio' was the third item on Giovanni

Zoffoli's printed list and was priced at 15 zecchini, three

zecchini less than the equivalent on the list of his rival RIghetti.

The model must have bccn made by 1769 when one was

included on the chimney-piece in the drawing room where

Sir Laurence Dundas sits with his grandson in the portrait by

Johann Zoffany, its companion (at some distance) being the

Bo7gig¢cfe G/¢dG.¢tor. Another version of this bronze is in the

Victoria and Albert Muscuni (A.15-1974).

The 'F.' terminating the name on this bronze and the

initials on the vases (Nos. I 10-11) may have been

misinterpreted by Fortnum who, in his manuscript catalogucs

and his introduction to the Cataleyue Of Bronz,es in the South

Kc7£J¢.#g}o7¢ A4#fc#ow, supposed that Zoffoli was Florentine.


@@115

::8g[)]Cfobffyos[ac°m°(C]73[-85)andGiovanni(c|745_

115. Capitoline Flora

33.8 cms. (height including integral bronze plinth); 9.9 cms.

(|cngthofintcgralbronzeplinth);7.2cms.(widthofintcgral

bronze plinth); 4.6 cms. (height of marble plinth); 10.8 cms.

(length and width of marble plinth)

Bronze with a dark brown varnish worn in salient parts (especially

the figure's right knee) to a dull tan natural patina. Hollow, lost-

\'rax, cast. 'G.Z.I chlselled beneath the figurc's right foot in the

hti||ow of the integral bronze base. '8. 449. e' is painted in white

in the same hollow, behind the figure. Mounted on a plinth of black

marble with a few white fossils.

|jcnt by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1894; bequeathed by him in 1899.

8. 449 in his catalogucs. 'Bought in London' according to his

notebook catalogue. In his preliminary catalogue of 1857 (pp. 39-

40) noted as acquired in London together with the GTapj}o/¢.»c

4#f;#o%f No.114) in 1852. According to a separate 'Mcmoranda

of prices paid' under the year 1851 he noted 'Flora 6nd' (6 guineas).

For the famous antique statue in the Capitoline Museum,

Rome, of which this is a copy, see F. Haskeu and N. Penny,

T¢f£G ¢%d £¢G A#£jg%c (New Haven, Conn., and ljondon,

1981), 215-17. The bronze is made from a very accurate

model and cvcn reproduces the integral oval hollowed base

of the original marble, althouch this did nothing to help the

figurematchthecompanionpieccswithwhichitwouldusually

be sold to form a gr#77¢¢.f#rc dc c¢cee¢.#c'c. For the Zoffolis

generally scc Nos.110 and 111. The 'Flora di Campidoglio'

was the thirteenth item on Giovanni Zoffoli's printed list and

was priced at 16 zecchini, two zecchini less than the equivalent

on the list of his rival RIghetti. It is interesting that the

anoiint paid by Fortnun was not much bcncath its original

price (which would have been equivalent to slightly less than

£7). The model for this figure was surely made bcforc 1793

when another bronze was probably acquired by ljord

Boringdon as part of a set stin in place on a chimney-piece at

Saltram Park, Devon, companion with a F¢779GfG F/or¢. It is

interesting that the two FJo#¢f in Fortnum's collection (this

and No.112) have the same type of marble plinth. If thcsc

were fitted by Fortnum one would expect to find them on

his other bronzes by Zoffoll.


@@116

Unassociated with a Named Sculptor, Craftsman, or Supplier

ITAI,IAN SCULI'TURF,S: UNNAMED ARTIST

116. Bust of st Genevieve

3(161.-, hclght); 31 l,lls. (\\rldth)

('LtrrL'r.i m'irhle illsl'OIollrell brown I'ronl ingrained du''t. There is a

',]T''ii t|'i\\ in [hi' marble above the s.unt's left eye with 'some

Lii'L'0|oiiri'il phster filllng in it and thl'rc is a gre},' fleck in the figurc's

Lhc>st. T'hi' med:111ion of Christ around the figure's nei'k lias been

F'|ded. 'oiTii' of the glldlng llas been rubbi'tl off. The edges of the

rehclt arc' ni..1[ l'nough from in front. blit have been coarsely hewn

When studled from behind. There ls a corner of the relief mi'ssing

iu,|',lid thi' he.\il tt> the Prt>pcr left berorc the .'rched top, c'nd thcrc

''rL. trtii.es of phster Cement on the edges. The relief is set with crude

'L,['[rorts in c' rr.'ml'Work of Pine coa[ed ''rith gesso with a punched

p'',tcm \\rhich h'l.' bcell gildl'd and then covi'l.c'd with a thin ebonizecl

\c.,iL.i'r mul'h of whlch has been broken off.

I,„u h\r C. D. I Fortnum, 20 March 1888, and given later in the

'''iiw \tc'ar S 54 in hls ca[alogucs. Bought dt the sale of the collection

of .ill.\.'nder Ne'sbltt on 19 May 1887 for 38 giiineas (notebook

1.\'.'1,,i?1,c,,

Thii ri'licf'ha\' gcncrally bccn described in the Dcpartmcnt's

files .'s ri'prescnting the youthful St John but sometimes as a

\roung woman. If St John is intended it is curious that the

Jrdpcr}' (tvcr his left 'shoulder is not of goatskin and the cap

is also imusual for him or any other young male saint. Much

the most likcly subject is St Genevie\Jc the shcphcrd girl (born

in \Tanterri' in 421) who at the age of about 7 was given a

small ct>ppcr coin marked with the sign of the cross by

S[ Gcrmain, bishop of Auxcrre. It is unusual for her medallion

ttt havi- the head of Christ rather than a cross on it and it is

''lso a surprising subject for an Italian artist, but Fortnum is

klitjwn tt> h.i\'c ttwned a bust of this saint, and although hc

di'si-ribed it as of St Genevievc of Brabant this was a common

mistake for St Gencvierc of' Naiiterrc. Hc acquired the

\'i'ulpturi' from the collcction of Alcxandcr Ncsbitt who

liclic\'ed that it has 'formed part of the old facadc of thc

Duomo at Florcnce' and attributed it to one of the pupils of

OrcLgm. (Proceeding5 of the Society of Antiquaries' 2nd sches

8 (23 Jimc 1881), 547) and thus dated it Io the late fourteenth

or i'drlv fifteenth ccnturv.

Thi.-odd shape of'th€ relief, with curved lower edge and

'r,light tapering ''idcs stepped back to t=he arched top, eithcr

suggests, or is designed to suggest, that it is a fragment. At

thl- sdmi' time the i'utting (>f the i'hest and upper arms recalls

thl' t}'[)c of termination common in fifteenth-century

Fl(>rclltini-busts of women and children, and in panicular

busts of the infant Christ and Saint John. The miniature drill

htjles in the h.iir-and thc' single drill hole in the corner of

thl' fiLrurc's right cyc-may also be inspired by geiiuinc

fifteenth-i'entur\J Florentine reliefs (such as the relief of the

\'Oung BapfG.f} ii the ljt>s Angeles County Museum of Art

\\hlch 'looks as though it had bccn through a 'scwing

machine'-I. Pope-Henncssy, 7lf7c ''.f%dy ¢7¢d CyG.££.CG.J7# Of

/ffl£/z.¢# '''c#/pf#re (Princeton, NT, 1980), 224-5, fig. 5).

Ccminl}' thi. insipid religiosity aiid parted lips a.re inspired by

thl. tender scntimcnt and evanescent cxprcssion found in the

lltJmcstii' devotional works by sculptors such as Mino da

Lil''OIC clnd Dc'siderio da Settignano. Whi'thcr the sculpture

is a pastiche or a fake is impossible to say, but it is likely to

have. bccn rna.de in Florence in the 1860s or 1870s. The

drihing and the religiosity are rcminisccnt of Bastianini's biist

of Lucrczia Donati (Victoria and Albert Museum 38-1869)

trumpcted as a masterpiccc of Mino until exposed as a fake

bv the dealer Alessandr(> Forcsi in 1868. IJTortnum must ha\Je

b;cn acutely aware of this controversy but hc certainly did

not doubt the authenticity of this piccc. Bell in his annotations

tt> the large catalogue recorded Schubring's opinion that it

was bv Ncinni di Banco and Bodc's that it was modem. It

\''as oh display in the Fortnum Room togcthcr with other

reliefs (e.g. Nos. 26 aild 27) in 1909 but was not included

in the newly arranged Fortnum Room in 1931 (S#7#7#¢ry

Gttide. 23) .


@@117

117. Death-mask purporting to be

of I,orenzo de'Medici 'il Magnifico'

23 i.ms. (approximate length of mask); 56.5 cms. (height of

shadow box dt front); 17.7 cms. (depth of shadow box)

Plaster cast mounted on a board covered with crimson velvet and

set behind glass inside a deep oval shadow box with an oak fi.ame

and a deep, concave, slip also of oak but water gilded. There are

splits in the frame and slip.

Given by J . M. Dent~presumably Joseph Malaby Dent (1849-

1926), the successful publi'shcr-in 1903. Deceptively described as

a 'print of the death mask' in the £4#"G¢¢/ RcPo7? for that year

(p.10).

It is likely that this cast of the death-mask of Ijoren7jo

de'Medici (1449-92), as it was generally believed to bc, was

felt to be an appropriate posLsession for the Ashmolean

Museum because of the terracotta portrait of Lorenzo which

Fortnum had prcsented to the Museum in 1888 having

bought it from Emilio Santarelli, the Florentine sculptor,

expert, collector, and dealer in 1870. (Fortnum indeed

believed that the head was based on such a mask.) The mask

was on receipt 'framed and placed close to the terracotta bust

in the Fortnum Collection for purposes of comparison'

(4»72#¢/ RcPo77 (1903),10) but by 1909 according to the

I:r¢#d4ooZ G#G.de (p.101) the bust was displayed with a

photograph of the mask in the possession of the Societa

Columbaria in Florence and the cast was presumably in the

hisement store whcnce it seems never to have been removed.


@@118

118. Pacing horse (Horse of st

Mark's)

28 cms' (height of horse); 28.2 cms. (length of horsc, nose to

hccl); 6 cms. (height of plinth); 26.5 cms. (length of plinth);

11 cms. (width of plinth)

Bronze with a dark brown to black varnish cxtcn'sively won to reveal

a slightly olive green brown natural patina. The centres of the

rosettes and the studs between them on the collar are of silver, which

has tarnished. The eyes are hollowed perhaps for silver inserts which

have fallen out. Hollow, lost-wax, cast with thin walls. The nostrils

and mouth open into the interior of the cast. The rear portion of the

tail where it curves has been added with extreme care. The line of

the join is hard to see but the small heads of the four Iron pins are

betrayed by slight rust. There arc small perforations in the horse's

back which have been stopped with wax and one lozenge-shaped

hole 0.4cms. across There i'' a larger lozenge-shaped hole, 0.8 cms.

across, presumably from tl chaplet, in the belly which is not plugged.

AIl the details sccm to be reproduced from the wax model. The

bronze is attached to its plinth with two bolts extending from the

horse's front right and back left hoofs. The small pile of earth

supporting the horse's back right foot is made of maliogany toned

to match the bronze. The plinth is of mahogany with the key pattern

inlaid in satinwood. A small portion of the inlay at the edge of the

front face has been lost. 'M. 177' is written in black ink in the

interior of the plinth.

Bequeathed by J. Francis Mallet who died 7January 1947. Received

in the Mu'soum during the last week of May 1947. No.177 in the

inventory t>f his bequest. Valued by Mallet at £30. 'Christic' given

as the only provenaLnce in Mallet's own list. The British eighteenth-century

base siiggests that it had been for more than 150 years in

this country.

Mallet described this as 'A bronze horse walking with left

forefoot raised. Style of John de Bologm. Circa 1650. On

wooden pedestal with key pattern inlay,18th century,

English.' In view of his reference to Giambologna Mallet

perhaps meant to write 1550 rather than 1650. It seems

perfectly possible that it was made as early as 1550, and might

have been made as early as I 500, and the silver inlay would

bc less surprising at either of these dates than in 1650 or

1750. In any case it is likely to have bcen made in the Vcneto

for it is in fact, as Mallet surprisingly did not note, a

reproduction of one of the four famous antique bronze horses

of St Mark's in Venice (for a general account of the history

and fame of which see F. Haskcll and N. Penny, T¢f£G ¢„d

£47c A»£¢.gz/G (I+ondon and New Haven, Conn.,1981), 236-

40). The antique horse reproduced is the one on the

beholder's right and the imitation of the pattern of the collar,

the veins on the nostrils, the creases on the neck, the breaks

in the clipped mane, and the skimpy arched taft is all

remarkably prccisc. The cast is of superb quality: all the detal,

which is remarkably crisp, seems to have bccn made in the

model. What looks like another cast with a dull patina but all

the sane details in the modelling and even with an identical

hole in the belly is on loan to the Royal Ontario Museum,

Toronto (at present in rcservc). One in the collection at

Schloss Pommer'sfeldcn may be a third, although there arc

nrinor differences (this example is reproduced by H. R. Weihrauch in hi's E%7"Pd£.Jc¢c 87'tJ7¢zcf}¢Z-z/cZ7ez (BrunLswick,

1967), 50, pl. 48, captioned a'' Vcnctian of the sevcntcenth

century). There exist other bronze vcrsion's of other horscs in

the quartet which arc less precise as copieL', less dctailed in

modelling, less accomplished as casts, and often smaller in

size. One such in the Ashmolcan Mi[seum, coming from the

collection of chambers Hall, is modelled on the first horse of

the four on the bcholdcr's left, another, also inodi'lled on

this same horse, is in the WaltLcrs Art Gallery, Baltimori'

(Weihrauch, op. cit. 50, pl. 4z and E.1'. Bowron,

P:nen'a'issance 'B_r?nz_es_ in the Walt:er5 Art Gallery, Iialtimore

(Baltimore, Md.,1978), 30-I), but these have usually been

rcgarded as probably Venetian or Paduan works of the first

half of the sixtcciith century.

The distinctive manner in which the repair is made to the

tall of the Ashmolean's horse with the extra piece of bronze

attached with four minute iron pins (Lsee above) may help to

identify where and when it was made.


@@119

@@120

119 and 120. Pair of reclining female personifications

7'.6 cnis. (helght of 119, figure lcflning on a book, from soclc to

top ot' head); 14 cms. (length of same figure, from cxtcnded foot

to the large b(Jok); 8.2 cms (height of 120, figure with anchor,

frt)in ''oclc to raised hand); 16.5 cms. (length of figure with

.'nchor), 2.5 cms. (hc'lgh[ of socles); 16.75 cms. (length of socles);

7.2 c,TTS. t \'ridth of SoC]esj

Br(tnzc, hcavlly fire-gilt, With the gilding worn in the knee and index

finger ttf the nght hand of the figure with a book (119) to expose

i iiatiml patlm, wdrm Chocolate in colour, suggesting a high copper

L.ontent. Hollow, lost-wax, casts. The casts a.re heavy and the limbs

'i|id heads appear to bc solid. Both the figures have been minutely

tt,t,led ori both 'sidl's, although the rear view is obviously subordinate.

The hair, drape.ry folds,And fingers are precisely chiselled and a

pimch has been employed to textilre the olltside of the drapery. In

bttth figures [hcrc clrc small areas of tarnishing a.nd also sonc dirt in

thi' deeper hollows. In the case of No. I 19 there is a flaw in her

nght foot which has probably been caiised by the bolt penetrating

it. The loss has bccn filled with red wax. The folio volume is dcn[ed

tin t-he v]sibli-cover and flawed on the concealed one. It is cast

tttgcthcr wit-h [hc figure but the quarto volume upon which the

f'oIlo rc's[s is cast separately and screwed to it. The quarto volume

h.is iiot been gilded and miist bc a later a.ddition or a replacement.

|n the case of'No.120 there is a large clnpty bolt hole in the drapery

spread behind the figure's left foot. The figure's raised hand has

bc'en separately cast. The joint is slightly loose and the hand is now

turned with the palm facing to the front whereas it was intended to

f'ai'c Away fr(tin her head. Both figures are bolted to spreading

rcctdngular white marble plinths. These are not original and the

figures do not (when seen from the rear) fit neatly onto them. The

edges of the plinths have been slightly chipped. Three of the corners

in one case and two in the other have been made up with plaster.

•FRANCE/ BEQUEST/ PURCHASE / 1935' is written in ink on fringed

circular labels stuck to the underside of each plinth.

Bought frt]m the. dealers 'Cecil ljeitch and Kerin' together with the

boys riding lions attributed to Roccatagliata (Nos.124 and 125)

\+ith fund f'rom the bequest of George Flood France. Recorded in

the Donations Book on 30April 1935.

On acquisition these figures were tentatively attributed to

Guglielm(] dclla Porta on account of the reclining female

pcrsonificatiolis of somewhat similar character on the

sarcophagus in that sculptor's tomb for Pope Paul Ill in

St Petcr's. A more likely location for figures in these positions

Would be the sides of a pediment-for there are miniature

Pedimcnts, for examplc on luxury cabinets in ebony with

marble inlay and marble columns taking the form of temples

And ttll aedicular picture francs, whereas minature sarcophad

{1rc h.1rdcr to imagine. If thcsc little bronzes were attached

to a pediment and the pedimcnt \vas broken a.nd filled with

all achievcmcnt of arms then that would explain the

t>lltstretched arm of the figure with an anchor, especially if

[hc t>ririml positi(>n of the hand is borne in mind (scc above).

Larger and less precisely finished versions of these figures,

'11ghtl}r adapted in pose (the version of the second figure With

lleither an anchor nor a raised arm), both abollt 14 Cms. in

lcngrh, \\rerc attached Io the broken pediment of a spectacular

''ight clock with a copper face painted with the Fates t>y

Filippo Lauri and the body inlaid with semi-precious stones

and bristling with ormolu fittings, which was made in about

1660 for Prince Colonna. This clock was, early in 198z in

the possession of the dealer Raffaello Amati (of Antiquus, 90-

2 Pimlico Road, London Swl). The figures are likely to have

been invented long bcforc 1660 and one would be inclined

to date the Ashmolean's bronzes to the last decades of the

sixteenth century. The unknown sculptor was an artist of great

ability. The figures, especially when seen from the side, their

feet nearest us, arc most elegantly composed.

The use of rcclining figures on pediments is not common

in antiquity (although they were of course frcqucntly

employed in the spandrels of arches) and is n(>t usual in the

first half of the sixtccnth century or before (although

Donatello introduced the idea in his tabernacle of the

Sacrament in St Peter's in the 1430s). It was a motif which

was favoured by Palladio from 1550 onwards and it became

popular first in the Veneto and then all over Europe.

No.120, the figure with an anchor (one prong of which,

incidentally, emerges behind the figure's left foot),

presumably represents Hope. Her companion with a folio is

less easily identified. She probably held another attribute in

her right hand. If this was a Cross then she would represent

Faith.

There is an inferior version, perhaps an aftercast of the

Hope (but without the anchor), in the collection of bronzcs

in the Museo Bardini in Florence (unlabelled).


@@121

121. Winged female personification

25 cms. (height including integral ba.se); 13 cms. (width, across

wings); 3.5 cms. (height of base); 7.55 cms. (length of base);

6.45 cms. (width of base)

Bronze with a dull slightly olive, pale brown patina and traces of a

Slt varnish (not fire-Slding) especially in the folds of the drapery

behind the legs and on the figure's right knee. Hollow, presumably

lost-wax, cast. The dctalls arc apparently reproduced from the model

and tooling is evident only at the tips of the wings. There are small

round perforations at two points in the drapery bcsidc the proper

left leg, probably from chaplet pins. The interior of the base has

been filled with plaster of Paris. Both hands have been separately

cast. The proper left hand is slightly loose and the join at this wrist

may be easily discerned, whereas the join at the other wrist is not at

all obvious. The attributc in the proper left hand has a screw fitting

within. It is clear that this object has been broken off under the

hand and traces of solder remain froin an attempted refixing. '8. 433.

G. ' is panted in white vertically in one of the hollows of the drapery

behind the figure. A paper label with '8 / 433' written in brown ink

within a printed blue border is stuck to the underside of the base.

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum on 7January 1888 and given later in the

same year. 8. 4.33 in his catalogues. 'Bought in Florence' accordmg

to the notebook catalogue, presumably after 1857 when his

preliminary catalogue, in which it is not included, was compiled.

The bronze was accidentally damaged in 1965 and repaired 1965nd

by the conservation studio of the Department of Antiquities.

Fortnum catalogued this figure as an 'angcl or Ccrcs' but with

question marks. Given the separate casting, and hence

possible replacement, of both hands, the attributes may not

determine the figure's original identity. 'The ears of corn and

the cup (now incomplete) may be original but injured and

rcstored', Fortnum continued carefully. 'They may have been

emblems of Ceres or of bread and wine.' VI7hereas corn is

certainly held in the figure's right hand it is not ccrtaln that

the item in the other is, or rather was, a cup.

If the attributes are removed and the figure's right shoulder

is twisted forwards this figure is seen to relate very closely to

a bronze statuette which is known in many versions all of

more or less the same size. Thcsc V¢.c}t/r¢.cj have long bccn

recogni7jed as probably dcrived from an antique prototype

(see fo[ instaLncc 'N . Bode, Italian Renaissance Statttettes

(Ijondon,1908), ii, pl. CII). No such prototype has, however,

been identified. Figures of a similar character stand at the

corners of a Roman sarcophagus of AD 180 in the Walters

Art Gallery, Baltimore (23.29), but since this was cxcavated

in 1885 it cannot b'e the sourcc., which one would, in any

case, expect to bc a free-standing figure. It may be that the

Ashmolcan's bronze is independently derived from the

unicijntified antique source. It looks likely to be more faithful

to it than are the other versions all of which are more twisted.

The hexagonal base with stepped mouldings is very unusual

in a Renais'sancc bronze: it is a type of base favoured in British

sculpture around 1890 (see for instance No. 504).

Fortnum regarded his bronze as Italian of the fiftenth

century. No one would now favour such an early date. Charles

Avery published a version of the statuette in an American

private coAlechon (Giambologna,1529-1608: Sculptor i:o the A4ed¢.cG. (Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1978),

no.195), for which he ingeniously proposed an attribution

to Pietro Francavilla (Pierre Franchcvillc) because of its

similarities with a statucttc held by that sculptor in his portrait

of 1598 by PagS (published by M. Fransolet, 'Une ceuvre

d'art rctrouvee: Lc Portrait de Pierre dc Franchevillc par

Giarhoatista, Pagdi. T589. ' Bulletin de l'Institut Historique

BCJgrc dc Ro7%e,18 (1937),199-207). But Francavilla's

statuette, dcscribed by Baldinucci (who at one time owned

it) as 'a model, apparently in wax, representing Fame', is

blowing a trumpet, has drapery blown back to reveal both

lower legs, seems to have both breasts bare, and does not

have wings.

The very tight torsion found in the V¢.cfory statuettes other

than the Ashmolean's was popular generally in Italy around

1600: one finds it in the caryatid figures of P¢¢."fG.7¢g and

4yc4¢.fccf%rc which flank the bust of Alessandro Victoria on

his tomb in S. Zaccaria, Vcnicc, and in the four caryatids by

lppolito Buzio and Pompeo Ferrucci supporting the attic of

the tomb of Pope Paul V in the Cappclla Paolina in S. Maria

Maggiorc, Rome.

Nevertheless the V¢.c}ory, if not the Ashmolean's bronze, is

likely to be a Florentine invention. A diminutive version of

the figure serves as a finial on :i bronze standard lamp in the

Museum fur Kunsthandwcrk, Frankfurt on Main (inv.

no. V218) which is inscribed 'FERDINANDUS MEDICES

MAGNUS ETRURIAE DUX' (a connection noted independently

by Volker Krahn). A statuette of the same sizc and pose as

the V¢.c}ory statuettes, but Slded and holding a platter of fruit

or vegctablcs in her left hand and some vegetation aloft in her

right, and without wings, is cradied in one hand by a man in

a portrait attributed to Pontormo, and certainly Florentine,

in the Christ Church Picture Gallery o. Byam Shaw,

Paintings by Old Ma5ter§ at Christ Church O)Ofiord (Oxsold,

1967), 61, no. 63, pl. 60). The man's other hand rests on a

companion statuette which is based on Andrca del Sarto's

:r:s:oscou[pTuof:lsnoui:ecuTeodst:;g=:swciozo;a:riuuscthpi:s::bb':ed

to models made by his fficnd Jacopo Sansovino. The

connection beween the statuette cradled in this painting and

the V¢.cfory was noted independently by Peter Mcller who has

convincingly idcntified the sitter as Vinccnzo Borghini and

suggested that the statuette may bc by Tribolo and dcrived

from the V;cfoy¢.cf which Michelangelo proposed for the first

project for the tomb of Julius 11.

Various distinctions may bc made among the bronze

V¢.cfor¢.cf. Of those that I have studied the version in the Ca

d'Oro in Venice (D. br. 57) is by far the finest cast. In this

version her left hand is empty but her right hand holds aloft

a laurel crown. The undergarment buttoned over the thigh

and falling down behind the legs, also emerging in a small

fold under the exposed breast, is given a minutely punched

texture. The hem of the upper garment lifts and ripples. The

version in the Louvre (OA. 6415) is also of high quality with

particularly lively modelling in the front of the wings (but

much less interest in the drapery). There is no diadem in this

case but it may have been attached for there is a small hole

in the hair. The same applies to the bronze in an American

ITALIAN SCULPTURES: UNNAMED ARTIST

private collection published by Charles Avery in the

Giarnbologna catalogue (cited earlier) which would seem to

be the version Sold at auction at Wcinmtillcr, Munich, 28-

9 october 1970, lot 622. This is very close to the Freni'h

version. Another good example, without wings and without

a diadem, is in a private collection in Berlin (formerly in the

collection of the architect Adolf wollenberg, and sold at

auction by Rudolph Lepke,17 March 1982, no. 90, p.19).

of less high quality are the examples in the collection of Lsir

Brinslcy Ford, that formerly in the collection of Guido von

Rhb (E.'N . Btann, Die Bronzen der Sunmlung Gttide yon

R4d ¢.# W¢.c7® (Vienna,1908),18, pl. Xxb), in the

Kunsthistorishes Museum, Vienna (5653), and the t]ne in

the Victoria and Albert Museum (71.1866)-which may be

an aftercast.


@@122

122. Roman warrior riding a camel

7 cms. (height excluding the tangs); L6 cms. (length of tangs)

Silver gilt, the gilding worn to expose a tamished silver. Hollow,

lost-wax, cast. Finely and minutely tooled. There is a circular

aperture bctwccn the camel's front legs. Threaded tangs extend from

each foot of the canel. The slab of lapis lazuli to which the camel

was attached has not been traced. The end of the camcl's tall has

been broken off and is lost.

Given by C. D. E. Fortnum in October 1894. Not in his large and

notebook catalogucs, but listed among 'objects sent to new rooms

of Ashmolean Museum October 1894' in a separate notebook

without a number. Acquired before 1857 when recorded in his

preliminary catalogue (p. 65). On the separate MS sheet of

'Memoranda of Prices pald' Fortniim noted 'Silver camel C. ccnto

I scudi', converting the '1 scudi' (fG.c) as 4 shillings.

Fortnum described this as Italian cinqucccnto work. It is not

dissimilar in character to No.123 and was perhaps also made

as a cabinet ornament. A date in the scvcnteenth century is

as llkely as one in the sixteenth.


@@123

123. Warrior in Roman armour

with a wolf beside him

6.5 cms. (height, excluding tang); I. I cms. (lengrh of tang)

Bronze of a very high copper content, fire-gilt in the front, worn to

expose a natural chocolate coloured patina in parts of the wolf, the

proper right arm, and proper left hand; the ungilded bronze behind

with the same pa na. Partially hollow, lost-wax, cast. There are

traces of solder behind the scat. There is a large hole behind the

figurc's waist, smaller ones below it and in the proper left shoulder.

The integral irregular plate base was probably Intended to continue

below the proper right foot. A threaded tang extends from below

the figure's left foot by which it was attached to a slab of cz.Po//z.7"

roffo marble (which replaced one of red breccia) which has not been

traced. These arc traces of black painted letters along the back of

the figure.

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum on 7January 1888 and given by him later

in the same year. 8. 417 in his catalogues. No provenance or date

of acquisition are given in his catalogues, but it was presumably

acquired after 1857 when the preliminary catalogue, in which it was

not included, was compiled.

Fortnum catalogued this bronze as Italian of the sixteenth

century and as a 'cleverly model'd ornanent' for a 'Cabinet

or some other piece of furniture' with which it is hard to

disagree-although it might perhaps be seventeenth century

in date. Fortnum wondered whether the wolf might indicate

that the figurc. represented Romulus or might be an attribute

of Rome. It is not, however, ccrtaln that it represents a wolf.

The figure must originally have held or been dcsigned to hold

something in his right hand.


@@124

@@125

124 and 125. Pair of andiron

ornaments in the form of nude putti

riding rampant lions and holding

shields

|8.3 cms. (height of group with the shield held in the putto's

light hand, from the lion's left foot); 17 7 cms. (height of group

with the shield held in the putto's left hand, from the lion's left

foot); 12.7cms. (diameter of wooden socles)

Bronze with a black varnish. Hollow, probably lost-wax, cast. The

surfaces have all been roughly chiselled. There are flaws in the group

with the shield held in the putto's right hand and chaplet holes in

both groups. The groups are fixed to turned wooden socles coloured

to resemble bronze. On the lindersides of the socles are fringed

circular paper labels inscribed 'J. J. de Zc>ete' in ink.

Bought with the George Flood France Bequest Fund in 1935 from

the dealers Cecil Ifitch and Kerln. Entered in the Donations Book

on 30 April together with Nos.119 and 120.

As was noted in the 47z»#¢/ RcPo77 for 1935 (p. 25) the

groups must have come from a pair of andirons-the heraldic

character of the design and the arms held by the putti support

this. The bases to which they are now attached must bc

replacements. Thcrc is another pair of very similar character

but with clubs held in place of shields in the Kunsthistorischcs

Museum in Vienna (reproduced L. I'1aniscig, Vc7¢cz¢.¢7z¢.j.c4/c

BG./d¢¢#c7' dc!7 Rc7?¢¢.ft#7"c (Berlin, Vienna, 1921), 607) . These

groups were attributed to Nicol6 Roccatagliata but this would

have been on account of the anatomy and, still more, the

faces of the putti which, however, are found generally in

Venetian sculpture of the second half of the sixteenth century

as is discussed in the entry for No. 82. The quality of the

sculpture that can be documented as by Roccatagliata is

superior in design and execution to these. It is unlikely that

any of the three principal components in each group was

oriSnally designed for each other. The putti hold the shields

as if they were supported below, which they are not. The two

lions are essentially the same and the wax models were

probably taken from the same mould and the heads then

twisted into different directions. The two putti on the other

hand are reversed in pose, but in ncithcr case do they sit

agreeably on their mount-the right [cg of the putto with the

shield in his left hand is in particularly unhappy relationship

with the ralsed back right leg of the lion. The putti appear to

grip the lions by their names but a piece of inconsequential

drapery emerges above their hands. The groups are perhaps

more likely to be the work of a third-rate Venetian founder

improvising with spare moulds than pastiches devised by a

forger.


@@126

126. Dead Christ

25.7 cms. (height); 50.8 cms. (length of figure); 55 cms. (length

of plinth); 19.5 cms. (width of plinth); 6.5 cms. (height of plinth)

Painted terracotta. The p nt has darkened but the drapery is still

red and some red may bc discerned in the wounds. The flesh is

now a dark olive brown but may be distinguished from the darker

brown of the ground. The rear of the model is unpamted and is a

pale beige colour. The paint has flaked in numerous small areas. The

figure has bccn broken along the lower edge and part of the drapery

and all the fingers of Christ's right hand are missing. The terracotta

has been bolted to a plinth of rosewood with four separately carved

feet. The bolts have not been un fastened but if the clay has been

hollowed it must, to judge by the weight, bc very t-hick walled.

Bequeathed by F. Hindley-Smith in 1939 (A#»#¢/ RcPo77 (1940),

16). The sculpture seems always to have been displayed on a c¢ffo»c

in the Fortnum Gallery.

The sculpture, which was highly untypical of the collection

from which it came (a collection consisting largely of

Impressionist and Post-Impressionist works, for which see

Preliminary Essay in Vol. 11), was described on acquisition as

'School of Jacopo Sansovino'. It is indebted, in the build of

the body, the facial type, and, above all, the half open hand,

to the Christ in Michelangelo's P¢.cfd (for which see No. 60).

It may well bc by a Florentine sculptor such as Sansovino

who had studied Michclangclo dccply, but it is hard to date.

The plinth with its simple spreading hollow sides and lack of

mouldings must bc carly twentieth century and looks like

French work. It is unusually well chosen for colour, polish,

and proportions.

A sample was drilled from the rear of the terracotta in April

1987 by Mrs Dorecn Stoneham of the Research Laboratory

for Art and Archaeology but it proved to have bc€n taken

from a restoration and no dating by thermo-lumincscence

was possible (ref. 38l-z-89).


@@127

@@128

127 and 128. Pair of nude boy supporters from a cabinet

19.5 cms. (height of boy with right arm raised); 19.6 cms. (height

of boy with left arm raised); 4.8 cms. (length of block supported

by boy with right arm raised); 4.6 cms. (width of block supported

by boy with right arm raised); 4.7cms. (length and width of

block upon which boy with right arm raised is standing); 4.6 cms.

(length and width of block supported by boy with left arm

raised); 4.8 cms. (length and width of block upon which boy with

left arm raised in standing)

Ebony. Each figure including plinth, and block supported, is carved

out of a single piece. In the case of the boy with right arm raised

there is a small loss in the corner at the back of the plinth to proper

right. In the other case a large piece of wood is missing at the same

point. In both cases there are two holes in the upper surface of the

supported block and three on the undersidc of the plinth Including

one which perforates the entire plinth between the feet of the boy.

'Stanmore' is wntlen in pencil on the underside of the plinth

supporting the boy with right arm raised. The hand resembles that

of c. F. Bell.

Presumably in the bequest of C. D. I. Fortnum in 1899. The items

are not included in his large or notebook catalogucs and bear no

mark but one has the name of Fortnum's house written on it and

they correspond with an entry in his preliminary catalogue of 1857:

'Two boys in Ebony: part of a Cabinet.} The hand raised to support

the frieze or moulding above the head. Venetian work. Cinque

cento. 8±" with the provenance "Venice 1851" ' (p. 70, nos. I and

2 of the section 'Carvings in Wood etc.').

It is curious that Formum, whose cataloguing was st>

scrupulous, should have omitted thcse items. The explanation

may lie in his uncertainty whether to class them as

miscellaneous sculpture or with furniture. They may well bc

Venetian of the sixteenth century as he supposed, or perhaps

a little later in datc.: the character of the curled heads is

certainly reminiscent of venetian bronzes of that period (such

as Nos.124 and 125).


@@129

129. Pie fa

39.5 cms. (height including integral plinth); 16.7i'ms. (length of

plinth); 14.4cms. (width of plinth)

Terracotta of a pale pinky beige colour. Solid, but what might have

been an aperture in the undersidc of the base is filled with plaster.

The Virgin's left forearm has been broken off and lost, as have both

legs of Christ just above the ankles, parts of Christ's left hand, part

of His nose, and a portion of the Virgin's drapery behind Christ's

li'ft shoulder. Christ's nght arm has bccn broke.n a little above the

elbow and repaired. The Virgin's left arm has been broken and

repa]red, i'rudely with glue, at the elbow. There are breaks across

the Virgin's back, through a large portion of the Virgin's drapery

near the plinth, and through the plinth which have bccn cement-ed

very obviously. There are numerous minor chips. The modelling has

been blunted by the addition of a thick slip. In some areas the

granular and bubbly character of this mixture can bc clearly pcrccived

In others it appears to have been partially scraped off. The abraded

face of Christ is given a certain cohercncc by this slip; but it makes

the fingers of the Virgin's right hand almost indistinguishable from

the cloth beneath.

Bought in 1961 from the Arcade Gallery (Paul Wengraf) of The

Royal Arcade, 28 Old Bond Street, Ijonon Wl, for £315 (the price

being reduced from £350 by 10 per cent). The invoice, dated 19

September, was passed for payment on the following day. The

sculpture was rcgistcred on 15 October. Photographs taken in 1974

show it in a glass case in the Fox-Strangways Room. It has been in

bascmcnt storage for at least a decade.

The sculpture was recorded by Ian Robertson in the 47?»#¢/

RcPo77for 1961 (p. 64) as of the 'Venetian school . . . from

the middle of the 16th century, emanating ccrtalnly from the

circle of Jacopo Sansovino (1486-1570) with a strong imprint

of the influence of Michelangelo. Instinct with an intensity of

emotion, it displays a simple dignity and pathos unexpected in

a work of so small a scale. Doubtless conceived to bc carried

out in life-size figures, it has not yct been possiblc. to connect

it with any known group of the subject. ' It is certainly indebted

to Michelangclo's P¢.Gf¢. It does look like a sketch model,

and an Italian work of the. sixteenth or seventeenth century.

It might bc Venetian.

Notes in the Department's files and on an old label indicate

that Robertson did later connect it with a large group: that in

the lunette of the huge wall monument to Dogc. Francesco

Venier (d.1556) in S. Salvatore in Venice, completed in

1561, to designs by Sansovino. This particular part of the

tomb was delegated by Sansovino to Alessandro Vittoria in

1557-8. The sinilarities are very slight and superficial.

Vittoria's group has a bolder outlinc.: the VirSn's left arm

stretches out with a clear ge'sture and her knees form a solid

base for the body of her Son, whereas the support in the

terracotta is notably weak. The terracotta is also surely not a

model for a relief.


@@130

130. Lamentation

33.9 cms. (height including Integral base); 27 cms. (length of

Integral base); I cm. (height of integral base in front)

wood (lime ?) covered with gesso and paint. The paint has

discoloured and flaked, as has the gesso in somc' parts. Some of the

paint would seem not to be original, for Instance the red on parts

of the robe of Mary Magdalene is evidently applied on top of a

blue. There arc traces of gllding on the rim of the base, the hat of

Joseph of Arlmathea, and the implements hc holds. The group

appears to have been carved from a single piece of wood (although

oins could easily bc disguised by the gesso). There is sevcrc damage

from woodworm. The Virgin's ralsed left hand has been broken off

.ind lost: the stump is riddled with worm channels. The top of the

ladder has also been broken off and lost. One of the uprights was

also clearly weakened in this manner. The groiip is carefully coloured

behind but the composition is flattened as if to be set against a

background. A slot in the back of'the base at the centre may have

been for a cross against which the group is likely to have been set.

Bought from Mary Bellis, Charnham Close, Hungerford, in 1964.

Registered on 20 January 1964. Mary Bellis was chiefly a dealer in

(tld oak furniture, but scc Nos.12 and 416.

Ian Robertson described this acquisition in the A##"a/ Rcpo77

for 1964 (p. 50) as 'North Italian in origin and somcwhat

provincial in character, it is ncverthcless a dramatic and moving

group, the form of which owes much to Michclangelo's

rendering of the subject, in particular in the central figure of

the Virgin supporting the body of Christ in her lap'. He

dated it to the middle of the sixteenth century. It may well

bc later for third-rate devotional carvings are notoriously

conscrvativc in character.


@@131

131. Bust portrait in profile of a

bearded ecclesiastic

32.6cms. (height); 26cms. (width)

Carrara marble, discoloured grey. The relief groimd has been cut

oiit so that there is no ground behind the crown of the head. Plaster

adheres to parts of the back of the relief and a wedge of concrete

has been attached to the lower p(>rtions of' it so that it can stand

up. There was onginally an aperture in the unclcrside of the bust

presumably for fixing it.

Provenance unrecorded. Transferred from the basements of' the

Department of Antiquities in 1986.

The studied curls of the hair and beard and the smoothly

rounded, clean outlined, inflated body suggest Baccio

Bandinelli's relief style at its least animated taken to the point

of parody. It is hard to imagine the setting from which this

has been extracted, and it is not easy t=(> imagine the setting

for which it has been adapted.


@@132

132. Youth attired as a Roman

warrior

29.8 cms. (height, including integral plinth); L3 cms. (height of

integral plinth at rear); L2 cms. (height of integral plinth at

front); 6.9 cms. (length of plinth); 5.9 cms. (width of plinth)

Ivory. There is a yellow patch on the proper right knee, much yellow

on the rear of the figure, and a grey patch, perhaps a stain, on the

figure's chest. These are numerous thin vertical splits of various

length (most densely on the face and the cloak as it passes over the

upper chest), nuprcrous cracks (in the figure's left hand and arm,

and above his left knee especially), numerous breaks mended with

more or less conspicuous adhesive (in the figure's nght arm at the

elbow and wrist, in the figure's right hand across fingers and baton,

and across both shins), some insertions of ivory (in the neck to

proper right and in the figurc's left thigh and also of mastic filler in

this thigh), numcroiis losses (the finger of the figure's left hand, a

portion of the edge of the cloak above his right elbow, and much

of the edge of the cloak behind), and numerous chips and scratches.

Splits, cracks, joins, and scratches are accentuated by dirt. Most of

the figurc's right arm and the whole of his left arm have been

separately carved and attached. The join in the latter case coincides

with the edge of the breastplate. In the former the join is concealed

by the cloak and reinforced with a peg visible in the cloak. The plinth

is also carved from a different piece of ivory and pegs attaching the

fcct to it are visible on its underside. 'M.215' is pa]nted in black [o

the left of the back face of the plinth. Vestiges of old labels, both

printed and manuscnpt, remain on the underside of the plinth.

Bequeathed by J. Francis Mallett who died 7 January 1947. Received

in the Museum during the last week of May 1947. No. 215 in the

inventory of Mallctt's bequest. Catalogued by Mallett as 'ex Magniac

and Kcnnedy Collections. Christic 1933 Girdwood Collection'.

Valued by Mallett at £58. Bought at Christie's, London, in 1933,

according to Mallctt. The vendor was a certain Girdwood. It was

lot 387 in the sale at Christie's 18-22 March 1918 of the collection

of s. E. Kennedy whcrc it was bought by 'Wcbster' from £65 2s.

The catalogue claimed that it came from the 'Magniac Collection',

i.e. the great collection of 04y.eff d'¢7t sold in 1892 and in large

part collected by 1861 when the best pieces were published in J. C.

Ralinsor\'s Notice of i:he Princi|]al Word of Art in the Collection of

Ho//®.#grword¢ A4l¢g#¢.¢c. But I have not traced it in the sale catalogues.

Mallett regarded this ivory as 'sixteenth or carly seventeenth

ccntury' and noted that it was 'reputed to be Cosimo lst

Grand Duke of Tuscany'. A thin and crumpled piece of paper

in the Departmcnt's files with a typewritten account of the

sculpture may have come from Mallett's papers and been

acquired by him together with the ivory itclf. Having quoted

the Kennedy sale catalogue in which the statuette was

catalogued as 'Italian sixteenth century', representing 'in all

probability Cosimo I de Medici in Roman armour; about his

lorica is the collar of the Golden Fleece', it continues to as'sert

that 'the opinion of several well-known judges adds

confirmation to the above probability. This is still further

strength [J¢.c] by refercncc to "Ij€s Medailleurs de la

Renaissance-Florcncendcuxieme partie" by Alois Heiss, in

which thcrc are two reproductions of portraits of Cosimo I.

Each shows the curly hair and the determined mouth while

the features bear a striking resemblancc. to those of the

statuette.' It does not seem impossible that this is an idealized portrait of cosimo (1519-74, created duke in 1537 and grand

duke in 1567) at about the age of 25 (in 1546) when he was

made a Knight of the Golden Fleece by the Emperor

Char[esv. However, comparison with the portrait busts by

Cellini and Bandinclli of 1545 and with the painting by

Bronzino does not support this hypothesis since in both

portraits hc sports a slight beard. Some connection with the

Medici is on the other hand suggested by comparison with

the late sixtccnth-century marble statues in the Sala dcl

Cinqucccnto in Palazzo Vecchio, Florcncc~Vinccnzo dc'

Rossi's A/cff¢7zd7" dc' A4edG'c¢. for in'stancc has very similar

stylized curls and Caccini's Gr¢72d J)ale +'r¢7zccj.co I wears

Very similar armour.

An ivory figure of a crowned warrior with a thick beard,

holding a sword in his right hand aiid pointing downwards

with his left, wearing a more ornate cuirass but very similar

buskins (lot 1,874 at the sale of Mcntmorc, Buckinghamshire,

by Sotheby's, 23 May 1977), was also said to represent

Cosimo (for no good reason). It [ot>ks, from photographs,

as if it might bc a work by the same artist. The similar size

(30 cms.) and antique dress might cvcn suggest that both

belonged to a series, were it not for diffcrcnt bases (the

Mentmorc warlior treads on slugs and snails and snakes).

ITAljlAN SoUljpTURES: UNNAMED ARTIST


@@133

133. Five profile portrait busts in a

cawed franc

6 3 cms. (height of the male bust portrait placed top left-(¢);

5.7cms (height ofthc female bust portrait placed top right-

(Z7); 5 8 cms. (height of the male bust portrait placecl lower left-

(c); 5.6cms. (height of'the male biist portrait placecl lower

nght-(d); 6.2 cms. (height of the central rna.1e bust portra.it-

(G); 28 cms. (outsidc' height of frame); 29,5 cms. (o'itsidc width

of frame)

Wax of various colours mountccl on slate within a boxwood frame.

Minutc pearls, paste jewels, and a silver chain are applied to the

wax. The representation of clothing has been aided by mipressing

fine fabric on to the wax to obtain convincing textures. There is

some damage to the edges of the profile of the face of (c-) There is

a crack across the lower part of the face of (d). There is .1 craLck

across the neck of (G) where a discoloured adhesive is also apparent.

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum in Oc[obcr 1894 and bequeathed by him

in 1899. S. 30 in his catalogues. Stated in both cataloguc's to have

been bought in IJlorence in 1864; the price of £'5 is given only in

the notebook catalogue.

Fortnum recorded that the wa,\cs 'arc stated to be portraits

of members 8{ connections of the Medici family'-

presumably stated by the dcalcr from whom hc bought them.

The frame, which looks like mid-ninetccnth-century work,

has Medici lilies in the cartouchcs at the corners perhaps to

reinforce this asst)ciation. Hc regarded the pt>rtralts as

Florentine of the late sixtccnth or carly scvcntccnth century.

In his notebook catalogue hc wrote 'Thcy arc probably the

work of the Abb€ Lumbt> or Z,umbo (a Sicilian) who worked

for Cosimo Ill in the second half of the scventecnth century'

but then corrccted 'arc probably the work of' to 'have been

attributed to' adding the parcnthetical observation 'these look

earlier'. The dre\ss does indced suggest a date in the late

sixtccnth century. The man (¢) wears the red cross of Malta.

The yoimgcr man (c) wears the ordcr of the Golden Fleece

over black armour. The man (c) wears a cross 'flcury gules'

on a collar set with rubies and cmcralds. As Fortnum justly

observes there is a 'ccrtain family likeness' between all the

portraits excepting (c'). The latter is not only of A different

size in the face but has paler flesh tones. Fortnum wondered

whcthcr (¢) and (4) wcrc brother and 'sister and (d) the father of (c). Altcmativcl}r (a) and (4) my bc the parents tit' (c) dnd

(d). Little is known of the arti''ts rcsponsiblc for work of' t.his kind.

C. F. Be1l in a pencil annotation of Fortnum's large

catalogue (>bscr''ed of (c) that 'a replica' of'it which 'was sc'id

to bc in coloured stone (pietra commessa) and not waj' aiid

to represent a Spaniard-onnccted doubtless in some way

with the Grand Ducal courtis in the Gabilictto dcllc Gemme

in the Uffizi'.

The portraits are simil:ir in minute w'orkmanship to those

of King Philip 11 of Spain and members of' his faniily which

survive in their oridnal lockL'ts in the Victoria and Albert

Museum (A. 523, A. 524, A. 525, A. 526-1910) and have

bc€n attributed to Antonio Abondio (e1538-91). The

cvidencc for this attribution is set out in J. Pope-Hcnncs\sy,

Catalogue of ltali,an Sculpture i,n the Victtlria and Albert

A4#fe%7#, 3 vols. (I~ondon,1964), ii. 556, nos. 594~8. It is

admitted there that they differ in sr)'1e from those \vax portrajts

ofthc Emperor Maximilian I I aiid his wife in the Miinzjkabinett

at Munich (for which see Habich, 'Studicn zu Antonio imd

A:lessaLndro Alhondiro' ' Monatsberichte i4ber Kunstwissenschaf i z%d /(#7Gj't/J¢%dc/,I (' 1900-I), 400-z and I''iala, 4#£o#£.a

4b?ndit), kpr!Plastik a medajl4r (r'rciguc' 1909)' 46' mos. 82_

3) but it is claimed that tli€ri' is it close rclation'ship \''ith the

wax profiles of an imknown hdy and of Mary, wife of the

I,mperor Maximilian 11, in the Ambrosiana, Milan, attributed

to Abondio. But it js iiot at all clear tli.'t these two portraits

ill Milan arc b},' the 'saliic hand, aiid the seeond of the two,

which looks more likel}' to bc I)y Abondio, has .1 fluttcring

di;'phanous scarf which in[rodiiccs a pol'tic element and linear

interest iiiiparall€1ccl in the litcrul portraits in the Victoria and

Albc'rt Museum. (The t\vo Milan waxcs' togcthcr with one of

the F,inperor Maximilian 11, are publishecl I)}J E. Kris, 'Di

alcunc operc ineditc dcll'Ambrosiana', I)edefo, 9 (1928-9),

390nd.) Comparison should also bc' madi' with the walt

portraits t>f this period in the Staitlichc Miisccn, Berlin-

Dahlcm, for instance 5466' of Joanna of Allstria, attributed

to l)omc'nico Poggini. <lnd 8275, i'onsidcrccl to bc Italian and

e1600 (Ilo. 52, pl. 49, in U. Schlcgcl, Dz.c ¢f¢/G.c7ij¢.fc¢#

P'ild'yicr.!e .d.es 17.. !'trid I 8. |ahrhu7idcrtf (Sta'ulichc Muscc:r\'

Berlin-Dahlem,1978)).


@@134

134. Bust portrait of Christ

24 c|iis. (hclght Including Sol-Ic); 13.8 cms. (height of' mrbli'

b.i'c\' 12.8i'ms (djametc'r of base)

Broil/,c with c\ slightly leaden bro\''n I)atina \''ith slight traces of .I

d.'rki.r \arm'h. Hollo\''t lost-wax, cast in two pieces: the bust

'ep.'r.'tc' fr(mi the socll'. The surface has beeli minutely tooled (sci'

bclo\')-

BoiiLqht out t)f the Blakiston Fund from Peel and Humphns Ltd o|'

3r \'L" Bond Street, Lonclon Wl for fl95~the Invoice is datcci

I I)c'L'i.mber 1961, payment was aut.horized on 14 December, the

bu''t w.'' rcgistl'red on 27 December.

on the invoice, made out by the dealer Cyril Humphns, this

bust w.'s attributed to Bastiano TorririaLni. lan Robertst>n,

dc'scribing the acquisition in the A7¢7z#¢/ RcPo7t ft)r 1961

(pp. 62-3), wrote that

the clue to the prohable authorship of this bust i'' siipplied by the

'mal[ portrdit of pope Clcmc'.nt XIII, receiltly exhibited at the

\'ii-tom .'nd Albert Museum ill London, the papal effigy being

'upporteil by an Identical socle, in the form of the dcferentially

ht>wed head of a cherub, alike in design and execution to that

'iipportiiig the present bust (Pope-Hennessy, Arts Council

I,'hibition of J£¢/;¢7? Byo#zG tsf¢f%G#GJ,1961, Victoria and Albert

Miiscum, Nt>.185) .... The attribution of'the papal bust to

Tttrngiani is due, on the evidence of two large papal busts by thi''

drtist in the Kaiscr Friedrich Museum, in Berlin, to B(>dl-(Bildwerkc

lil-s Kaiser Friedrich Museums, D¢c G.f¢/£.c#£.jc47c Bj/dtycr4c der

j{t.7z#zfj.¢7?cc #~d dcf B¢rocfe, 1930, Ii, p. 2, mos. 6 and 7' plate'' 5

and 6)

It is indeed true that the socle of the papal bust (in fact of

Pt>pc- Gregory XIV and in the RIjksmuseum and iiot certainly

b}' Torridani) is similar in design to that supporting the

Ashmolcan's bust t>f christ, but that bust could hardly bc

mt>rc different in execution, being rcmarkat)ly frccly modelled

in the \\Jax and virtually unworked after casting, wherca'' every

aspect of the Ashmolcan's bronzc is precisely tooled.

The soclc may indeed bc a clue as to the origin of the bust

ttf Christ. A combination of scrolls, wings, and head are

t'tJund also in st)me other sixteenth-century supports for busts,

f'(>r inst.incc that devised by Pompeo Lconi for his bust of

King Philip 11 of spain in the Prado. But the i'omplcx character

of the si'roll support behind the chcriib in the Ashmolcall's

bust which is not found in the Leoni, nor in the Rijksmiiseum

bust, is unmistakably characteristic of Florence in the second

h.1lt'of the sixteenth or in the early decades of the se\'cnteenth

l'l'ntury-''uch an object might be fttund, little niodified' in

a t'cmale coiffure invci'ted by Bronzino, or as a i'onsolc

dl'''igned b}J Buontalcnti. The bronze holy water ba'sins

'u[1P(>rted by cherubs and scrolls in the c//rf¢./c of ss Annuziatci

ill I-'lorcnce which arc dated 1615 arc similar in conccptioll.

It I11d}' be qiii'stittned whether this socle was originally

designed for the bust, or merely adapted to it, but in an\'

l'asc the impassive expression and high finish of the bust-do

Cttrrl.spond \'ith the ideals of L'lorcntinc dcvotioml art in the

Sec'ond half of the sixteenth century a.s they are familiar in

Painting. Of thi' busts of christ in Berlin (neither of which i's

large .'s Robertson claimed) one is from the same model as

the Ashmolcali's but has a i'artouchc, also of vcr}' Flt-)rciitine

character in place of the cherub.

Apart from Torrigiani, tlic onl}' other sculptor t.hat sccms

to hcivc bccn serious[v considered as the author of this bust

is Antonio Abondio (-1538-91), on the grounds of a similarity

with his medallions of Christ (sce' LT. Schlegel, 'Einige

italicnische Kleinbronzen dcr Renais'sance', /'¢7G£4co7? (1966),

2: 39lrfe aiid, for thcsc. and t>thcr mc'dals of Christ, G. F'.

Hill, 'f'¢c A4Gd¢//¢.c J'o7?7'¢G.f5. o/ C47.;ff (Oxford,1920)). But

Riidolf-Alexander Schiillc is right to ri'jcct this connection cis

in diiy way conclusivc (scc his entry for the vcrsion of this

bust in Berlin) in thi-catalogue t>f the exhibition P7'#, #7%

J6tJtJ held in Prague ill 1988 (593, no. 491).

Thrcc other versions of the Ashinolcan's bust arc recorded:

that in Berlin, already mcntioned (Staatliche Musecn, Berlin-

1)alilem,10/62); one f'ormerly in the collection of Oscar

Boiidy in Vienna which was lot 76, Sothcby's, New York, 25

r\Tttveinbcr 1986, and onc in the Metropolitan Museum, New

York (40.14.2a, in store). In all foiir versions there arc minor

difi'ercnccs in finish: the base mouldings t)f the soclcs arc

variccl as is thi. chisclling of the beard and tcxturing of the

garments. The finish on the Ashmolcan's bust is mttst unusual:

the tunic and cloak (punched in most of the other versions)

are completely covcred in finely cross-hatched engraved lines.

These arc also used for Christ's flesh, only on a more minute

scale. In character these lines exactly resemble those u'sed in

highly finished copperplatc prints from around 1600. I have

never seen this finish on any other bronze of the sixteenth or

seventccnth century although it is a distinctive characteristic

of the bronzcs produced by the firm of Elkington in

Birmingham in the mid-nineteenth centiiry (for instance the

statiiettcs of Burke and Goldsmith after Foley) and is found,

al'so on the bronze chisclled by A. Mertens after Christian

Daniel Rauch's group of F,mcrcntia Ijorcnz von Taugermunde

in the Schinkel-Pavillion, Schloss Charlottcnburg, Berlin.

Elkington probably ti-ansferred the tcchniquc from silver and

this may also have been the case with the bust of Christ

ccnturics earlier.

There is another type of bust of Christ with which the

versions under discussion have often bccn associated. Thcsc

arc similar in size but have more expression; they do not have

the cherub support; Christ is turned to his right; the folds of

his tunic are quite different; his beard is not parted; his hair

is longer and less regular, some of the locks falling over his

right shoulder being picrci.d; and there is a knob to attach a

halo. One example of this type was lot 65 at Sotheby's,

Ijondoii, 20 April 1989, prcviou'sly exhibited in Scz¢/pf"yc

from the David Daniels Ctillect:ion (MinncaLpolis Tnstitutc o£

Arts,1979-80), 56~z no.18; others arc in [hc Victoria and

Albert Museum (A. 81-1951, gilt); the Stantlichi' Musecii,

Bcr[in-Dahlcm (inv. no. 5033); and the coucction of sir

Brinsle}' I'ord, Iondon (bought Christic's, Ijondon, 2 Jiine

1964, lot 49). Of thcsc the Daniels and Victoria and Albcrt

versions seem to be aftcrcasts (as pointed out ill the Danicls

catalogue). That in Berlin is quitc distiiictivc in modelling,

being far less tot>led: it also has a more slender soclc of an

iinorthodt]x shape. Thcrc need bc no connection betwccn

thcsc busts diid those (tf the t\Jpe represcnted at oxford


@@135

135. Belvedere Torso

22 cms. (height)

Terracotta of a pale orange beige colour. The model has been broken

and reasscmbled. There are vertical joins to proper right of the

abdomen and to proper left of the chest and there is a horizontal

join to proper right of the upper abdomen. On the back the

horizontal join continues to the proper left side where it meets a

vertical break which passes through the whole figure. There are

other lines which are cracks rather than breaks. Some of the chips

missing along the lines of the breaks have been filled with orange

wax. A chip has been lost from the shoulder to proper left. The

torso has been broken away from what was perhaps a separately

modelled base. A cavity between the legs has bccn filled with wax

and mastic to fasten a large nail into place. The projecting point of

this is used to secure the terracotta to a stepped plinth made of

wood covered in green velvet.

Bought from the Arcade Gallery (Paul Wcngraf), The Royal Arcade,

28 Old Bond Street, London Wl, in January 1961 for £500.

Registered on 31 January. Photographs in the Departmcnt's files of

the sculpture which must have been supplied by the dealer were

made by a Roman photographer (Boccardi of via delle Carrozze),

which indicates an Italian provena.nce.

The marble fragment of a heroic seated male figure, signed

by Athenian sculptor, Apollonius, known in Rome (where it

was probably excavated) in the fiftccnth century, became onc.

of the most famous sculptures in the world with its installation

in the Belvederc Courtyard of the Vatican after which it was

named. It has remained ever since one of the chief attractions

of the Papal Museums. A full account of its history and

reputation is given in F. Haskell and N. Penny, r¢ffc ¢#d

fbc A#f;g#c (London and New Haven, Conn.,1981), 311-

14. This reduced copy in terracotta omits the disfiguring

cavities and chips in the proper right thigh and chest and also

the portion of a block, draped with the lion skin of Hercules

and chiselled with the name of Apollonius, upon which the

hero sits, although it is likely that this was originauy included.

At the neck, upper chest, shoulders, thighs, and penis the

modeller has freely combed the clay instead of attempting to

reproduce the rough surface of the fractured marble. The

copy is of a quality which suggests that it must have been

made from the original or from a cast, rather than frt>m prints

or drawings. That copies of this size existed by the 1530s is

clear from the fact that one is included in a family portrait by

Bcrnardino Licinio (Villa Borghese, Rome). Ncverthelcss

such copies continued to be valued and must have multiplied

in subsequent centuries a.nd we cannot agree with Packer that

'it is probable' that this copy 'was executed soon after the

setting up of the marble in the Bclvedcrc Gardens, that is to

say in the second quarter of the 16th century, by an art:ist of

the Roman School of Michelangelo (1475-1564)'.

Samples of the Top.i.a have bccn taken by Mrs Dorecn

Stoncham of the Oxford Research Laboratory for Archaeology

and the History of Art on two occasions, in 1973 and in

March 1987. Thcrmo-luminiscence tests suggested a firing

date between 1428 and 1698 on the first occasion (ref. 81-

m-64) and between 1467 and 1647 on the second (ref. 381-

z-87).


@@136

136. Aesculapius

| 3 cms, (height incl']ding integral plinth); 3 cms' (height of base);

'5. I cms. (length ot' base); 3.9 cms. (width of bast.)

Bronze, fire-gilt, Wlth some p.Itches tarnished black, also \'Jom in a

few areas to rcvcal a natural l'oppcry cht)colate patim. Hollow, Iost-

\\tax' cast. Thcri' are firing cracks ill the god's right arm and in t>nc

of'thc coils of the snake. '8. 425. e' is painted in black on the

b[dck f'acc of the plinth. Moullted on a bloi'k of aiitique scrpcntinc'.

lent by C. D, E. Fortnum on 19 August 1887 and gi\Jen by him in

|888. 8. 425 in his notcbook i'ataloguc. Bought in Florcni-c in

|867 t'or '20 francs' accordiiig to that catalogue. The bronze altar

pedestal upon whic'h it was placed when in Ft>rtnum's ct>Ilection-

8. 425A in his notebook c'atalogue, 8. 712 in his large catalogue-

\''as removed t)eforc it was lent in 1887.

Fortiii]m rcgarded this bronze as Italian of'thc sixteciith

centiir}' and 'an imitati(in of the antique', 'dcrived if not

copied from an antique statuc'. Tt is surely possible that it is

later in date and in any case the rather poor (perhaps aftercast)

Paduan pedcstal in the form of an altar and probably dating

from the carly sixteenth cent.ury (similar to that supporting a

little A¢tt//a, 8. 414 in Fortnum's collection) now looks quite

inappropriate. This pedestal was clcaned of its green paint by

Bell in 1902 and probably had its 7.oco ¢7¢fG.co slabs on top

and below removed later in this ccnturv when a small bronze

LS;./c#%j, perhaps from the Bodleian Lib-rary, was fixed to it

instcad. I have found no exact ancient proto[ypc for the

figure.


@@137

137. Pair of winged putti bridling a lion

23.1 i'iiis. /height) 30i'ms. (Iengrh)

Carrara marble, dlscoloureci grey. There arc :' coupli. of [rcsh

scratches on the chci'ks ot'the promini.nt putto. Theri' .ire a fi'w

old chips mi'smg from the uppermost edge of the rc'lief sl.ib. Tlii'

shape of the slab is imlikely to bc original: the aiigles at \'hich the

corners arc cut cjff are not equal. A less discoloiired rect[ingular patch

in front of the chest of the lion indica[cs the position t)f .' relati\'cl}'

rci'ent paper label.

Proven{incc unrecorded. Transf'erred f'roin rhc basi'men[' of the

Departmc[it of fuitit|uities in 1986.

The sculptiirc looks like one of a series of playful variation

on a famil}' cmb[cm such as might adorn the f'ric7jc of' an

Italian \'illa or palace, possibly of the sixteenth, but more

probably of [hc se\/'enteenth, ccnturv.


@@138

138. Head of the Pseudo-Seneca

+o.5 elm (hcighr); 3 cnl''. (hcight ot' base .it the front)

Gri\ slightl}' peppc'r}', marble. The ''urface is sc'vcrcly wi'.ithcred

.'nL| hd[tcri'd. Large Chips arc missing froin the hair on the t'ront t)f'

thL, L-rt)wn, the end of the nose, And the back of' the nec'k. The tt>p

of the chest ls Cut in a manner whlch suggests that Insertion Into a

st'[i.ird[c marble hl]st of'drapery was intended, Drill holes are appari'nt

„T thi. corncr'' of the eyes and in the hair beside the ears. The head

has hi'i.n in(Jlmted on a small shaped bei'cli base.

prt,\ i'ncince iinrec'orded. Perhaps given I(-) Oxford Uni\'crsity b}' the

Lto\\ragi'r collntcss of Pomfrct ('sec No. 517) in 1755, If so, then

thi. hc.'d is probably froin the collection assembled by Thoni.'s

[|(>ward, carl orAnmdel. In the carly sevcntcc'nth centur}J \'Jhich

\\JdLb btiught by the countcss's father-in-law 'Sir William Fermor (later

Lt)ri] I,cmpster) f'rom the 6th duke of Norfolk in 1691 and kept at

E['ston Nc'[on, Northanlptonshire. In Oxforil the Pomfrct

Collection \'ras dlsplayed in the sculpture gallcrv of the Old Schools

iintil Its transfer to the Univcrsitv Clalleries, but thcrc is no certain

refcriilice [o this head in ally of thc' nineteenth-century H¢#dGoo4

(,'#jJcj., .'lthough lt could bc one ot' several iti'iTis simply identified

.is 'a heid' whli-h \\Tcre to hc sei'n in The Cli'pt or ''llh-Gclllclt'. It

w.i'' not noticeil b}' Michai'lis on liis, tTdmittedlv h'miccl, \'isit in the

htc 187os to i'ompile his A72czc7zf ,,t4¢//7/cj-£.# (7'7'c'¢f 87'£f#z7?

(eimbndge,1882) Tt \\{i' disl-o\i'ri'd in stol.i' .ind pl.'i'ed on di'pla}'

in the RIndolph G.iller\' b\' Michac'l V]i'kers in the mill-1970s.

The hci'd is a cop}' of a famous cintiquc poitrait t}'pe whit-h,

it was proposed b}J' Fulvio Orsini in a piiblii'ation of 1598,

rcprcscllted the stoic philosopher Scncca. (For an .iccount of

the type 'sec F. I'Iaskcll ancl N. Penny, T¢ff4' ¢7?d f4c A7?f¢.g%c.

(Ij:)ltdon and New Ha\Jen, Conn.' 1981)' 52.) It has bccn

rclnarked by Michael Vickcrs that the version of'thc portrait

of'Scneca which prcsidcs t>vi'r Rubclis's famous grttiip portralt

(now in the Uffizi, r'loreni'c) of foiir philosophcrs is inorc

similar to this than to ally other surviving replica (although

there arc difi'erences; most obvioiisl},I the upper chest is cut

off more squarely in the Ashmolean version). He has poilited

out tliat Rubens's own vcrsioli of this portrait may well ha\'c

bccn acquired b}7 thc. duke ttf Buckingham tt)gcther with

much (]f his collection aiid if s(-> might have liccn acquired

from Buckmgham by Arundcl (as is known Io ha\Je happcneci

in other cases).


@@139

@@140

139 and 140. Pair of supports involving heraldic animal heads

59 cms. (height of Nos.139 and 140); 103 cms. (length of 139);

25 cms. (width of 139); 102.8 cms. (length of 140); 26.5 cms.

(width of 140).

White marble with a coarse crystalline structure (probably Greek,

perhaps excavated in Rome), severely weathered and with black

stains below the mouths of the talbots and lions. Both pieces are

rough hewn on the reverse. The undercut branch in the mouth of

the horse has cracked to proper left and has broken off to proper

right in 139 but survives in 140. There is a large chip from the lower

comer to proper right of 140 and cracks across the brow of the

talbot and the horse.

Given to Oxford University by the dowager countess of Pomfret

(see No. 517) in 1755. They must have bccn made for Thomas

Howard, 2nd earl of Arundel, since they are decorated with the

heraldic a.nimals proper tt> him-the horse, lion, and talbot (a breed

of hound). They were acquired with a large portion of the Arundel

marbles by the countess's father-in-law Sir William Fermor (later

Lord Lempster) from the 6th duke of Norfolk in 1691 and were for

a long tine in the gardens at his seat of Easton Ncston,

Northamptonshire. By 1732 the marbles there had 'lately almost all'

been taken within doors-but these items might well have been

among the exceptions ('The Vertue Notebooks', W¢/Po/a Sac;cry,

24 (1935nd), 40). In Oxford the supports were kept in the Schools

until their transfer to the University Galleries where they arc recorded

in the H¢"dboo¢ G"¢.de of 1859 in the Crypt or Sub-Gallery, but

visible to the public (19, nos. 68 and 69). For much of this century

they wcrc in store, but they were placed in the Randolph Gallery

in the 1970s.

A list of works of art exported from Rome for Lord Anindel

in 1626 includes (in addition [o many paintings; 'una testa

di metallo di Socrate di naturale moderna'; four cases of 'gessi

moderni' of legs, torsoes, heads, busts; a draped portrait

statue of Ijord Anindel 9 P¢/ow; high; and many antique

figures cxtensivcly restored) the following items: '2 piedi

intagliati di commesso con l'arme del Sig Contc dclla Rondella

con la sua tavola di 10 palmi lunga et 5 larga di commcsso

di varie sorte di alabastri et di mischio moderni'-that is two

carved supports ('piedi') inlaid with the arms of the earl of

Arundel with their table top, 10 P¢/7#¢. long and 5 wide, inlaid

with varied alabasters and modern figured marbles of a smoky

pe;ttcm (F . Gori, Archivio storico artistico archeologico

/e#er¢77.a yoow¢7„ (1880), fasc. I I , pp. 74-91). The

identification of Rondella as Arundel, and the significance of

this reference, wcrc first pointed out by Jacob Hess ('Ijord

Amndel in Ron und sein Auftrag an den Bildhauer Egidio

Moretti', Eceg/z.j4 M¢.Jcc//¢#y,1 (1950), 213). These supports

are carved with Anmdcl heraldry and would carry a slab of

the size mentioned although one would certainly expect to

find a plinth beneath them. Nevertheless the document docs

specify that the supports included marble inlay which these

do not. A recent book on Anmdel interprets 'Sua tavola',

which must in context mean 'their table top', as 'his picturc'

and 'commcsso' as 'mosaic', and supposes that Anindcl

had commissioned a mosaic portrait of himself 9 feet high (D. Howarth' Lord Arundel and his Circle (INew Havcr\'

and Ijondon,1985), 56-7).

The nature of the marble used for these supports suggests

that they were made in Rome, carved out of 'marmo di

scavo'. The carving is coarse with a very obvious use of a large

drill. The back of each support is so rough that one wonders

whether they wcrc intcnded to be incorporated in a wall. The

H4!#dfroo4 G#¢.dc to the University Galleries dcscribed them

as the fronts of capitals for pilasters and as ancient work.

Michaelis, surprisingly, did not question this (A~cG.G#f

A4l¢#b/ef ¢-„ G7'c¢f 87jfzz¢.» (Cambridge,1882), 571, nos.123

and 124).


@@141

141. Head of a Niobid

40.5 i-ms (height); 16cms. (height of plinth)

\\rhitc. marble, probably Carrara. The sllrface is slightly worn. There

is a vertii'al crack in the .'hes[ to proper left. A chip is also mis'sing

from the boy's left car and from thc' nose. The head is mounted on

a plain stone plinth with no mouldings but a bold chamfer. This

has been painted black. The marblc' was cleaned by Kathleen Kjmbcr

using the steam process in 1989.

Gi\Ien to Oxford Unlversity by the dowager countess of Pomfret

(see No. 517) in 1755. The head is probably from the collection

assembled by Thomas Howard, 2nd earl of Arundel, in the early

seventeenth century which was bought by the countess's father-in-law

'Sir William Fermor (later I+ord Ijempster) from the 6th duke of

Norfttlk in 1691 and kept at Easton Nestoii, Northamptonshire. In

oxford the Pomfret collection was displayed in the sculpture gallery

of the Old Schools until its transf'cr to the University Galleries where

this head \vas rccorded in [hc H¢#d4oo¢ G#G.dc of 1889 in the Crypt

or Sub-Gallery but visible to the public (19, no. 54). Early in this

i-eiiturv (perhaps late in the last) it w'as consigned to store. It was

placed again on display, this time in the Randolph Gallery, by

Mii'hacl Vickers in 1980 (A##%¢/ RGPo# (1979-80),12).

The head was engraved in RIchard Chandlcr's A4¢77cooyjz

O#o7S¢.c„j.¢.¢ in 1763 (no. 55) with no indication that it was

not a genuine antique, but Michaclis (A~cG.c»£ A4¢7rb/Gf z."

G7.c¢f 87.¢.f¢¢.7£ (Cambridge,1882), 55z no. 63) observed that

'to mc the head appears modern' and the view that it is a copy

has prevailed ever since. The figure from whose head it is

copied is the son of Niobe with his left knee raised in the

group of Niobc and her children, now in the Uffizi but in

Aruiidcl's day (and indeed stiu in Lord Pomfret's) in the Villa

Medici in Rome. The group was discover.ed carly in 1583,

restored by 1588, and erected in the garden of the Villa

(F. Haskell and N. Penny, r¢ffc ¢77d £4e A#fG.g"c (London

and New Haven, Conn.,1981), 274-8). How Amndcl came

to acquirc such a work (if indeed hc did do so) is unknown:

modem marble copies wcrc not, it seems, characteristic of his

collection. The fact that hc owned a version of the head of

Niobc herself (considered by some to be the finest version

extant, but thought by Michaelis to be perhaps modern-op.

cit. 55z no. 62) may wcu bc pertinent. Hc may not of

course have acquired the head as a modern copy (there is,

after all, no evidence of anyone suspecting its status bcfore

Michaelis). If hc did acquire it as a copy then it may weu bc

relevant that hc was involved in making diplomatic exchanges

of works of art in 1620 with the grand duke of Tuscany, as

Michael Vickers has pointed out, for the grand duke's

Permission would probably have bccn required for such a

copy to be made.


@@142

142. Pope enthroned, extending his

hand in benediction

24. I cms. (height)

'l.erracotta \\Jith a grey t'ncl brown colour partially c'chieved by soot

or .i simllar substance workccl into the surface of' thc' cla}' before

firing. Thc' Interior of' the model reveals a clay of a beige colour

(When a sample was drillcci ill 1986 the cla}' \''a' founcl to be unusua_lly

sofr and pale.) The modc'I has bi'en hollowed out f'rom below to

aboiit 6 cms The popc's right hancl has been broken at the wrist

alid ri'attached. The first two fingers of the same hancl have been

brokc'n off and are missing. The handling is very rough and exhibits

fiiigcrprints in many places.

Bought fl.om Dr Alfred 'Scharf'in 1952. Rcgisterccl on 19 March.

Said to come from the collcction of Mrs C. K. hTorm.'n. A

photograph d.'ted 1966 shows it in a pedestal case in the I-ox-

Strangw<'y's G<illerv. It has been in ri'ser\.e for at least a ciei':'dc.

Although cntcred in the Redstcr as a sculpture by a 'follower

of G. Ij. Bcrnini' this was followecl by the name ofAlgardi

with a question mark and by the time Parker compiled the

A7¢79#¢/ Repoyf for 1952 (p. 51) he had decided that the

sculpture was a GozzG#o by Algardi for his great bronze statue

of I'ope Innocent X commissioned in 1645 and completed

in 1649 for the I'alazzo dei Conscrvatori in Rome (for this

sculpture see I. Montagu, 4/cfj¢7¢dro AJgr~dG., 2 vols. (New

Haven, Conn., and L{)ndon,1985), ii. 428, no.152). He

associated it with the terracotta (40 cms. high) in the

Kunsthistorischcs Museum, Vienna (ibid. ii. 429,

no.152.8.1), and found in it 'great dramatic force and

masterly execution'.

The terracotta in Vienna is of very different character. The

Ashmolcan's sketch should be connected with a sketch

purporting to be a do2;2;e#o for Bernini's statue of Pope Urban

VIII advertised in Apo//a for October 1967 by I)avid Peel

aiid Co. Ltd. of 2 Carlos Place, Mount Street, I,ondon W1,

a.nd there are other small sketchy versions of fainous baroque

sculptures, often with variations intcnded to suggest

abandoned preliminary ideas, which are exciting to art

historians. In the Ashmolcan sketch, Jennifcr Montagu justly

obscrved, in a letter to Gerald Taylor of 27 January 1982,

'the modening is dry and rather sketchy, whereas his

[AIgardi's| terracottas all have a marvellous fluldity'. She also

pointed out that the sculptor of this work seems to have no

real knowledge of lnnocent's appearance, the bumps on his

forehead and the unpointed beard, with which Algardi would

have been very i.amiliar. Samples wcrc taken from the

terracotta ill August 1973 and October 1986 by Mrs Dorccn

Stoneham of thi. Oxford University Rcscarch Laboratory for

Archaeology and the History of Art and thcrmo-lumincscence

dating indicated on bc>th occasions that the piece was fired

less than 150 years ago (ref. 8l-in-66 and 38l-y-30).


@@143

143. Hercules (or Samson) tearing

open the jaws of a lion

19.2 cm''. (hciglit)

Rrttnz€ wlth a dark vdmish, now bhck, worn oii salient points-c.

g. che.st, nose, chin-to cxposc a coppcr}' metal with a warm

brown natural patina. Hollow, lost-u'ax, cast with \'cry thin walls.

|''''cmbled from si'vcrll separately cast picccs. There arc firing cracks

iii thl' lion's back left leg. Much of the core remains and 'somc

L.h.'plcts are visible in the. hcro's left leg. A substance resembling

L.orii 'c€iils to have been pol]red tnt(> the body (>f thi' lion possibly

tt, u'eight and consolidate the piccc'. The hcro's right arm is

siiidrati'l}' cast And the)owl below the shoulder is clearly visible. The

hi'rtt''' left hand is cast together u'ith the lit>n's)aw-the join at the

wrist is i-leai.1y vlsible. The hero's left leg is separately i'ast-the

drapcii' i' intl'nded to conceal thc' join but does not qiiitc succeed

Hi d(>ing 'o. Solder reinforcing this joill has recently crackeci and the

|i>g is loose, The rcmainder of thc' hero's body is cast in one piece

And 'ittai'hed to the back of the lion-a anieared lini' of solder is jiist

\isiblc beside the lower leg. The broil/,c is c'xtensively toolc'ct, most

obviouslv t]n the lion's fell.

Given bv ^Mrs Gutckunst in memory of' Ill.r husband the art dealer

Otto GJtekunst,1953. Registcred ;n 15 July. The bronze had

bccn bought in at Christic's, Ijondon, 25 Jiine 1953, where it was

lot 15. An old photograph (by Henry I)ixon and Son of Albany

Street) showing the bronze when it was ill Otto Gutekunst's

cttllei'tion reveals that it was placed (in a block of dark marble with

'p,irse white veim (perhaps russet Tuscan marble) with an

.'pproximate rectangular base of bronze or broilzed plaster given

the texture of rough soil below the group. The groiip is now

mt>imted on a walniit base adapted from [hdt designed by

i\Iii'hehngelo for the ,W¢7.c#f 4#7.c/;#J.

'l'his bronze group is generally supposed to represent Hcrculcs

in i'ombat with the Ncmean Lion, but it possibly represents

Samson in the lion's den. The group is known in many

\'crsions. Tt is generally catalogued as an inkstand but some

\'crsioiis include a tongue in the lion's mouth, and, even in

thosc that do not (such as this examp[c), it is hard to imagine

the nc'tiire of the vessel which woiild fit sccurcly or snugly

bctwi'en the animal's jaws. Moreovcr a sccurc platform was

dn ob\'ious prccondition for an inkstand and yet fcw of these

groups seem to retain their oriSml base.

The group was considcred to date from the late fiftccnth

l'Cnturv and has been associated with the f7cyc#/cf ¢7ed £¢e

|Vc7#f;# L£.o„ painted by Antonio dcl Pollaiuolo in Palazzo

Medici by Planiscig, Hackenbroch, Ettlinger, and others, but,

ds ifuitht>ny Radcliffc has pointed out ('Two Bronzes from

the Circle of Bcrnini', 4po//a (Dee1978), 420), Vasari's

dl-scription of that cclcbrated lost work strongly suggests that

thl' ct]mbat was conceived of by Pollaluolo as face to face. It

ls, ht)wcvcr, ea\sy to see why the group has bccn associated

\'ith the strenuous and cxprcssive tcndcni-ies in late fifteenth-

'\nd carl}' sixtcent-century Italian art to which Pollaiuolo

l'ttlltributed so much. The dcspcrate grimace of the hero may

bl' i'ttmpdred with the face of Riccio's S47o#f¢.7¢c7 Ho7'j.c7»¢#

(\'il'toria and Albcrt Museum) or of his pcnitcntial S£/cro7%c

(Sta.1tlii'hc Museen, Berlin-Dahlem) or of the l'aduan

l'|'Ildll.std.nd with a screaming Triton bitten by a 'serpent

(Mu'sde du I^iiivri', OA. 6942; Staatlichc Musecn, Bcrliii-

Dalilcm, 39/107).

Radcliffe's claim that the group has a distinctively

sevcntecnth-century character is not cntircly convincing,

although it ccrtalnly could have been invcnted at that date.

From the similarities betwcen the version (]f'the group in the

Cottonian Collection, Plymouth City Art Gallery, and the lion

supporters of a base for a miniature bust of Paolt> Giordano

11 Orsini, duke of Bracciano, in the sarnc coucction' which is

inscribed as ca'st by Bemardino Dancsc of Rome in 1675,

Radchffe proposed that the former grt)up might have bccn

cast by Danesc from his own model (ibid. 418-23). (Danese

is known to have bccn active casting sculptural elements ft>r

Bemini's Cape[la del Sacramento in St Peter's bctwcen 1673

and 1675). The similarities with the bdsc of the Orsini bust

do not seem sufficicntly strong [o support the first part of

this hypothesis and no cvidencc of Dancsc's ability as a

modeller has bccn found. In ''rylc, technique, and finish the

bronze statuette of Sf LSc4¢j.f¢.¢7? (No.144) also given to the

Museum by Mrs Gutckumt provides a striking ct)mparison

but httlc help with dating.

The earliest probable rcfcrcncc to the bronze known to mc

is that in the posthumous inventory of the collection of Andr6

Ij€ N6trc, which includes a pair of bronzes of 'Herculles qiiy

egorgc lc lit]n' valued at 60 livres and a smaller bronze t>f' the

same subject valued at 40 livrcs (J. Guiffrey, 'Testament et

inventaire apres d6ces de Andre I,c Nostre et autres

dooulneuts lc concermAIIt' , Bttlletin de la Sociti6 de l'Histoire

dG /'A77 F7'¢7zf¢ir (1911), 258, mos. 367 and 368). The tjnly

version of the group which is known to have an old provcnancc

is that in Plymouth (Radcliffc, op. cit., fig. 5), which was

purchased at Christie's, London, on 28 January 1772 at the

sale of the Machese Lconori of pesaro, lot 31 (as by Algardi).

No scholar has ever con'sidered the group as originating

outside Italy (although it should be pointed out that many

of Lc N6trc.'s bronzes arc thought to have bccn (tf French

origin).

The Ashmolean's group may be a'ssociated with the versions

in the collcction of william Ncwall (sold Christic's, London,

27 June 1922, lot 73, illustrated), Plymouth (Radcliffe,

op. cit., fig. 5), the Victt>ria and Albert Museum (5543-1859,

ibid. fig. 7), the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (44-591),

the Wemher Collection, I,uton Hoo (480), the Metropolitan

Museum, New York (1982-60-10z published by J. D. Draper

in The Jack and Belle Lensky Collection (NIow York, \984)'

no. 74), the Untermycr Collection (briefly in the Mctrop{)litan

Museum, New York, published by Y. Hackenbroch, Bra"zcf,

Other Metalwiorh and Scttlpture in the lrwin Untermyer

Co//ccf;o7¢ (I,ondon,1962), p. xxiv, fig. 47), the Lisbon

Museum of Ancient Art (reproduced when in the Gulbenkian

Collection in Co7¢7¢oinc#r (May 1956), 230, fig.I), and the

City Art Gallery, Manchester (1982-136). Thcsc. vary greatly

in condition and finish. There are traces of gilding only in-thc

Houston version. Most have traces of dark varnish. All

seem to be composite casts but to have been assembled with

\'arying skill and in slightly diffcrcnt ways-the right foot of

the hero in the rather poor ver'si(>n in Manchester for example

is half way down the sidi-of the lion rather than resting on its back. The Plymouth and Victoria and Albert Museum

bronzes have tcxtured feu and loin-cloth, whereas in the

Ashmolean and Metropolitan Museum versions the fell alone

is textured. The lions' tails are differently fitted and have

sometimes been dctached. The versions in the Metropolitan

Museum, Manchester, Luton Hoo, and the Victoria and

Albert Museum all have tongues. The cycballs arc marked

with unusual distinctness in the Ashmolcan bronze.

There arc also versions of the group which appear to have

been made from different models which are relatively

iinenergctic in both pose and expression. One such is in the

Victoria and Albert Museum (A.152-1910, reproduced in Wn. Bof i€, Ita!:an Penajs:Tpce Bronz;e Statuettes of the

Rc#¢¢jij#7¢cc (Iondon, 1902), p. xxiv, no. 48) which is

perhaps made from a modified aftercast. Another example was

in the Untermycr Collection (Hackcnbroch, op. cit., fig. 48,

not to be confused with fig. 47 mentioned above but like it

sold by the Metropolitan Museum), and looks more like an

inept imitation, as does the group which was lot 123 at

Christie's, London, December 1989.

In even the best casts, such as the Ashmolcan's, the

execution seems unworthy of the conception, and one must

suspect that the original has been lost. Perhaps it was made

of silver.


@@144

144. St Sebastian

26.5 cms. (height including integral base; 9.75 cms. (length of

base; 10.3 Cms. (width of base); 2.6cms. (height of plinth);

I | .5 cms. (length and width of plinth)

Bronze with a blackened Varnish rubbed off in parts (especially the

sides of the legs and the back of the saint's left arm) to expose the

natural chestnut patina of a coppery alloy. Hollow, lost-wax, cast

with thin walls. There are firing cracks at the base. The bronze is

attached to a plinth of scrpcntine with a spimchy pattcm.

Given by Mrs Gutekunst in 1953 in memory of her husband the

dealer Otto Gutckunst. ReSstered on 15 July. The bronze had

bccn bought in at Christie's, I-ondon, 25 June 1953, where it was

lot |2 (togcthcr with its present base). The bronze was already in

the Gutekunst Collection in 1912 when the bronze was published

bv W. Bode in Jf¢/;¢7¢ RC„¢G.j:J¢»cc Bro»zc Sf#f#c#cf (1912), iii,

p,.cCLvl.

Bode regarded this bronze as Italian, probably Venetian, of

the carly sixteenth century (op. cit. under provcnancc) as did

PldrisciB (Piccoli bronzi itali,ant del Rinaccimento (M:Ha.n >

|930), pl. CXXXV, no. 236), and this opinion was echoed

in the A787&z4¢/ RcPo7? (1953: 53), with the additional

suggestion that it might possibly bc a work of the Spanish

school. Another example of the bronze was in the sale of the

Henry Harris Collection, Sotheby's, London, 24 October

|950, lot 72. And one with a differently shaped base and

retaining two arrows is in the Victoria and Albcrt Museum

(Hildburgh Collection, A. Ill -1956). James Draper in his

annotated reprint of Bode observes of the Ashmolean bronze

that it is of 'unknown facturc, possibly 19th century'. In the

character of the cast, its colour, and rough surface, combined

with some tooling, and in the dynamic but ungainly torsion

of the figure, with crudely modelled extrcmitics, highly

cxpressivc uplifted head, roughly striated curls and beard, the

bronze figure is very similar to the HG7ic#/cf (or S¢owfo#) also

from the Gutekunst Collection (No. 143). This contorted

manner of depicting St Scbastian, reflecting the varied poses

employed for the thieves crucifed beside Christ, seems to have

bccomc popular in the seventeenth century.


@@145

145. Ecce Homo

15.6cms. (height Including integral base); 3 cms. (height of

plinth); 5.7cms. (length and width of plinth)

Bronze, fire-gilt. The gilding is worn in some salient arcas and

scratched in others, exposing the natural chestnut patina of a

coppery alloy. Ht>llow, lost-wax, cast. There is a large round hole

in the drapery in the centre of the figure's back and smaller ones

on the i'rown and in the back of t:he head (presumably for fixing a

halo). There is also a smaller threaded hole beside the thumb and

index finger of his right hand. The outside of the cloak and the loin-cloth

have been textured with the same punch. There is a threaded

tang soldered to the small integrally cast oval base. The tang is

inserted into an cbonized wooden plinth. 'M.171' is painted in

black on the drapery behind the figure.

Bequcathed by John Francis Mallett who died 7 January 1947.

Received in the Museum during the last week in May 1947.171

in the inventory of his b€qucst.

The bron7.c was catalogued by Mallctt as Italian of the

sixtecmh century, but it is more likely to date from the

scvcntccnth century. It must have been part of a group

presumably on a miniature altar.


@@146

146. St Catherine of Alexandria

14.7cms. (height)

Bronzc with a natural tan patina. Hollow, very thin-walled, lost-

\'.ax, cast. No evidcncc of tooling. The surfaces arc very rough and

there is a firing crack through the wheel. Parts of the wheel may also

be lost, although it was of course intended to bc broken. An abrupt

termination of the drapery above the figure's left hand may also bc

a loss caused by a firing crack. There arc six square holes: by the

salnt's left knee, right breast, and right shin, in her back near her

left shoulder, in the drapery behind her left shoulder, and behind her

right knee. These must have been caused by chaplet pins and they

may once have been filled, as a hole appears to have been filled on

tt)p of the figure's head, but plugs would easily be shaken out of a

wall of bronze as thin as this. The integral plinth is filled with plaster

of paris as a weight. '8. 428. ff' is painted in white on the side of

the plinth behind the figure.

Gi\'cn l)y C, D. E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888, 8. 428 in his

catalogucs. Bought in Florence in 186z accordiiig ro the large

i-atdlogue, from Gagliardi according to the earlier notebook

catalogiie, for £2.

Fortnum regarded this as a cast from a rough wax sketch by

a scvcntccnth-century artist in Italy, perhaps 'Madcrna or

:,:rT

'\It':;I.''':#''"''',',;irfu',;:',''#tt'!;;;;jfrffi':#!";:„I,,,':,,,,,,,

ii.,.-,,,.ill

Fiamingo'. The roughness is not, in fact, much in excess of

that often found in bronzes b}r Fanelli which, since they were

repeated, are not likely to be attempts to preserve Goz2;c#;

(and indeed the whole idea of bronzcs designed to perpetuate

sketches in this manner is anachronistic~the practice was

exceptional bcforc the end of the last century). Anthony

Radcliffc has suggested that this particular figure is by Fanelli

and associates it with two other bronze saints hc has seen, one

belonging to an anonymous collector and the other in the

collection of sir Brin'sley Ford. They might have formed part

of a set on a cabinet or domestic altar. In any case Fortnum

was surely right to suspect that this reflects some more

monumental work by a major sculptor. The pose has a sweep

combined with a daintiness and clegancc which suggests a

later date than the artists hc had in mind.

The version in the Ford Collection is the same size (allowing

for a slightly less high plinth). It differs from the Ashmolcan's

bronze in the tilting of the head and in the position of the

right arm and absence of any attribute. The rough unchiselled

character is the same and it even has holes (from the chaplet

pins) in the same places. It was bought by Richard Ford at

the sale of sir Thomas Lawrence's collection.


@@147

147. Nymph feeding a child from a horn

29.2 c'ms. (height); 24.3 cms. (width); 33.7cms. (height of

outside of frame); 28.4 cms. (width of outside of frame)

Terracotta of a pale beige colour. Much of the lower half of the

moulding at the proper right edge has been broken off and replaced

with plaster. An equivalent loss at the top edgc has not been replaced.

Some chips on the other edges have been patched with plaster but

most have been left. The head of the serpent coiled around the trcc

trunk has been broken off and lost. A circular hole in the body of

the serpent suggests that a rcpalr was attempted. The right forearm

of the infant satyr has been broken off and lost: only an iron wire

rcmalns from a plaster rcpalr. His left forearm and his lower left leg

(but not the foot) are old rcpairs in plaster. The heads of the

standing goat, of the birds in the nest, and of the mother bird at)ovc

them, also the drinking infant's left foot and a wing of the bird above

the nymph's head, have been broken off and lost. The surface of the

relief is mottled with mould and in a few parts the hard 'fire skint of

the terracotta has flaked off (this is most notable in the right forearm

of the nymph). Framed in a dark oak moulding (probably original).

Presumably transferred during this century from the Department of

Antiquities. The Benefactions Book of the Ashmolean Museum

records that the rehief was given by 'Harries' an 'Armiger' of

Worccstershirc in 1693: 'AD MDCXCIII. Ornatissimus Vir D.

Harries dc in agro wigomiensi armiger, donavit elcgantissimam

•/'¢C7c//¢ee P/¢r};c¢7", in qui felici manu exhibetur rovIS His[oria in

Greta insula enutriti Amalthaea scilicet nutrix sub elata quadam

arbore, in eremo conspicitur; lacte rcpletum Comu Copiae ad os

infantuli admovens: huis Caprac abstantes cum Satyro, ct canem in

alta rupe eriscerans aquila. Quin et in summa arborc, pulli aquilini

in nido delitescunt, quibus serpens arborem ascendens, exitium

denunciat.' The subject-matter and provenance had been forgotten

and the medium mistaken by 1836 when it appears in A C¢£#/og%c

of the Ashmolean Mttsoum Descriptive of the Zoological Specimens . . .

as 'A Cast in plalster, representing a female figure holding a

comucopiae from which a child is drinking, 8cc.' (146, no. 493).

This relief is a copy after an antique Roman marble rehief.

That such terracotta copies were made in Rome in thc.

seventeenth century is amply documented in the notebooks

of Nicholas Stone the Younger (W. L. Spicrs (ed.), 'Diary

and Notebooks made in ltaly', W¢/po/G Soc¢.cty, (1918-19),

193-200), but no other examples certainly dating from that

period are known to me in British collections. The copy is

not entirely accurate. Above all, in the marble original (for

which, see below) the rocks form an arch behind the infant

satyr, presumably indicating the cntrancc of a cave. The

composition has been somewhat compressed to fit into a neat

rectangle. Other differences are due to ignorant restoration

(eg. the child satyr held a horn in his left hand).

The marble original was said to have been discovered in

the digSng of the foundations of Palazzo Giustiniani and

was first published by Pietro Sant.i Bartoli in his Ad7%¢.71¢7zd¢

Ro7#fl)„or#7" ¢7zfG.g#z.f¢f#ee in the 1670s with a note by

Bellori identifying the subject and reflecting that the birds

wcrc an embellishment added by the sculptor. Bemard dc

Montfaucon in his 47¢£¢.¢#z.fc' GAfp/¢.g#G'G (I. i (Pa.ris,1963), 32-

3, pl. VII) gave it priority as an ancient representation of the earliest years of the first of the gods. The eagle (eating a hare

on the rocks above the satyr) was the bird of Jupiter and

confirmed the subject, but he was puzzled by the other birds

defending their young against the scrpcnt and echoed Bellori

in suggesting that they 'paroisscnt n'etrc li que pour

l'omemcnt'. From the Giustiniani Collection the rclicf passed

into that of Lucien Bonapartc before being acquired by Pope

Pius VII for the Papal Collections. It was placed in the

Appartanenti BorSa of the Vatican Palace before being

moved to the I,atcran Museum where it was catalogued in

1863 as the 'so-called Amalthea relief' in dcferencc to the

scepticism expressed by a relay of scholars over the previous

half-century (0. Benndorf and R. Sch6nc, D£.c ¢7cfz.4G„

Bildwerlee des Lateranensischen Museums (Le:Ip7..Lg, \867),

16-18, no. 24).

The identity of the donor, Harries, a gentleman who had

presumably been on the Grand Tour, remains a mystery.


@@148

148. Ornamental crucifix

44.5 crns. (height); 24.5 cms. (width); 9 cms. (height of Corpus);

7.4 cms. (width of Corpus)

The Corpus is carved out of coral. The proper right leg and both

arms arc made from separate pieces. The proper right foot is

restored. The back of the Cross consists of a plain sheet of brass.

upon thi.q is a brass sheet perforated and set with quatrefoil flowcr-hcads,

radial petals, and smaller, tea.r-shaped pellets, all of coral. The

crcsting along the edges of the Cross consists of short lengths of

brass each decorated with white enamel: the foliate scrolls at the

cxtremiry of each arm of the Cross are also of brass with white

enamel ornament.

Bcqucathed by Mary Irene Curzon, 2nd Baroness Ravcnsdalc of

9 The Vale, Chclsea (1896-1966), in memory of her father, the

first Marquess Curzon, Chancellor of the University of Oxford

igo7-25. Registered 2 June 1966. The bequest of Ijady Ravcnsdalc

consisted of 115 items, mostly pectoral crosses. This is unlike any

other item in her collection. In her autobiography (J78 M¢ny

Rkyf¢"I (Ijondon,1953),122) she wrote of how a 'vile Russian

Customs Official' broke the 'coral feet of the Christ on the Crucifix

I had bought in Leningrad'.

The crucifix was oririnally displayed in the Museum as 'carly

seventeenth-century Spanish'. Work in coral of this character

\vas made in Sicily, especially at Trapani, in the seventeenth

and cichtcenth centuries. The Arte dei corallari, the guild of

coral workers, was established there in 1628. The skiued

workers wcrc dispcrsed to other Meditcrrancan centres after

the repression of the insurrection in Trapani in 1672. Similar

devotional pieces with clumsy miniature sculptures and

densely but undynamically patterned with tiny picccs of coral

and cnamcl arc not uncommon on the art market-see, for

instance, lot 195, 12 December 1985; lot 6z 3 July 1986;

lot 491, 8 December 1988; lot 256, 20 April 1989, at

Sothcby's, Ijondon. There are three pieces of this work

displayed in the Victoria and Albert Museum (M.15z

M.159 and M. 218-1956). A number of such pieces, secular

as well as devotional, were included in the exhibition C¢.p4./£¢

de/ fG¢.cG#fo a N¢Po/¢. (Musco di Capodimonte and Musco

Pignatelli, Naples, 1984-5), including a P¢.¢#o and p¢j:Jog.a

from the Museo di Sam Martino, Naples, which has similar

arrangements of tear-shaped coral pellets and similar flower-heads

of coral and white enamel and, in the latter case, similar

scrolled cresting (nos. 5.33 and 5.39). The catalogue includes

a general discussion of such work by Gina Carla Ascionc (ibid.

•il. 336Al)' a.s docs her bock Gloria del Corallo a Napoli dal

XVJ ¢/ XJX fcco/a (Naples,1991).


@@149

149. Bust portrait of plato

28.2 cms. (height including tablet); 2.6 cms. (height of tablet);

3.6 cms. (width of tablet)

Bronze with a deteriorated dull grey and green patim, due to damp

storage. There are traces of a ruddy golden varnish most evident

on the neck. Hollow, lost-wax, cast. The bron7.e has been extensively

tooled. Half, beard, eyebrows, and the blank eyeballs have been

textured with a punch. Part of the integral tablet below the chest

has been cracked off and lost. Some remains of solder suggested a

botched attempt at mending this. The punched ground of the tablet

has been partly chiselled away. On the remaining ground the edge

of a 'T' and an '0' remain from the name Plato originally chiselled

there.

Presumably transferred from the Department of Antiquities. Adolf

Michaclis, when cataloguing Oxford's ancient sculpture (A#cz.e#f

A4¢#4/ct ¢.» G7.c¢f By¢.}ra[¢.7¢ (Cambridge,1882), 592, no. 233)

observed that this was a sculpture which he 'could not find' or had

'over-looked'. The basement was dark, the sculptures covered in

dust and ill-arranged, and Michaelis was in a hurry, but it is possible

that the bust was, at the date of his visit, in the Bodlcian Library or

some other location. Bequeathed to the University by Dr Richard

Rawlinson; for whom see No.151. The engraving in Chandlcr's

A4l¢7'»¢o7i¢ O#o#;G"jz.a (Oxford,1763), i, pl. XLV, no. Cl I) shows

the tablet complete and the letters chisclled on it as PL . . 0. The

third and fourth letters appear as if deleted. There is a turned soclc

below this, but it does not look likely to have been an original one.

The bust may well have been one of the 'Finc Brass Heads' included

in the 'Collcction of the Right Honourable Edward Earl of Oxford,

Deceas'd' auctioned by Mr Cock, London, 8 March and following

days 1741/2, from which Rawhnson is known to have acquired

much.

Michaelis (op. cit.) correctly obscrved of this bust, which he

knew only from the plate in Chand]er's 114l¢7.7"o7'¢ O#o7¢G.c»f¢.¢,

that it was 'apparently a copy of the Florentine bust' of plato.

This Florentine bust is a small marble portrait (35 cms. high)

long beheved to rcprescnt Plato. It is now in Palazzo Medici-

RIccardi, Florence, but was formerly in the Sala dellc Iscrizioni

of the Uffizi. For a long time it was considered to be the bust

of Plato from Athens which Girolamo Rossi of Pistoia is

recorded as presenting to Lorenzo il Magrifico, but that bust

passed to the University of Pisa and there is no record of

it returning to the Grand Ducal Collections in the Uffizi

(G . Bencivenni' gi'a Pehi. Saflgio istorico della Real Galleria di

F;"c7¢2if?, i (Florence, 1779), 26; G. Mansuelli, G¢//erg.a dcgr/¢.

U#z¢... Irfz Jc#/f#rc, ii (Florence,1961), 21, no. 2). The first

certain record of the little Florentine bust of Plato is in fact

an inustration (generally numbered 27) in Pictro Santi

BaLrtoH s Admiranda Romanorttm antiqttitate4m, first

pubhshed in Rome in the mid-1670s with notes by Bellori.

This bronze copy which seems oridnally to have had a

patina typical of Florentine bronzes was no doubt made in

Florence in the late seventeenth or early cightccnth century.

The marble bust has a tablet below the chest, but rather

broader than the one in this bronze copy. It is chiselled with

the nanc of Plato in Greek letters but the antiquity of the

inscription was chauenged in the mid-nineteenth century and

doubts as to the identity fouowed. Richtcr observes that no

other ancient portrait of Plato gives him a tuft of beard below the lower lip, symmetrical swags of flesh in the lower neck,

and so little hair on the centre of his head (G. M. A. Richter,

777c Pop?%¢G.£f a/£4c G7'ecfef, 3 vols. (london,1965), i. 168).

Because the restorations to the upper lip and nose of the

Florentine bust have been removed the illustrations in

Mansuelli (op. cit., fig. 3) and Richter (op. cit., fig. 966) arc

less valuable for comparison with the bronze than that in

J. J. Bernouilli, Gr;cc¢¢.fc¢G Jfeo7£og7'¢P¢¢.G (Munich,1901), ii,

fig. 2 and E. Q. Visconti, Jco#og7i¢/3cgrecq#c (Paris,1808),

i, pl. XVIII.


@@150

150. Profile bust portrait of pope

Imocent XIII

29.6cms. (height); 18.3 cms. (width)

Carrara marble, discoloured by dirt. There are slight scratches on

many parts of the surface and chips to the edges. 'Mavosi' is chisclled

lightly below the chest (where it has been cut). Some of the letters,

especially the third and fifth, are not clear.

No provenance is recorded.

The portrait has been described in the Department's records

as of 'an ccclcsiastic', but only a pope would be represented

wearing the 7"ozzc#¢ (a short, hooded, buttoned cape) and

cap. The porcine features, so exaggerated, or at least so

unmodified, might suggest caricature wcrc it not for the

affable expression on the face. The dove hovering against a

background of flames depicted in 7.z./a.ova j.c¢¢.¢cc¢.¢£o on the

stole does not, it seems, help to identify the 'sittcr, but there

can be little doubt that this is the amiable and fat Innocent

XIII (Michelangelo de' Conti, b.1655, clccted 1721,

d. 1724). Comparison may bc made with the posthumous

portrait of this pope by Claus in the Ashmolean (No. 23).

No sculptor by the name of Mavosi has been recorded and

the inscription may not be intcnded as a signature.


@@151

151. Profile head and shoulders of

a laurel-crowned hero

28.7cms. (height); 20.5 cms. (width)

White marble of unccrtam type, now dark grey with dirt and

scratched. The relief is partially abraded most noticeably in the areas

of highest relief, possibly from exposure to the elements. The losses

to top right and lower left are consistent with the injudicious prising

of the relief from a wall into which it had bccn ccmented. The edges

may not however be original: that to proper right would not, if

continued, contain the projecting portion of relief below it.

Transferred from the Department of Antiquities in 1986. The relief

was moved to the basement of the University Galleries early in 1888

from the basement of the Old Ashmolean Museum. It had probably

been kept during the eighteenth century in the Bodlcian Library.

In 1763 when published in Chandlcr's M¢77"or¢ O#o#¢.c#j¢¢, i,

pl. XLIV, no. XCII, the relief was ilnbroken and framed with pilaster

strips decorated with ribbon ornament and a substantial plinth and

entablature. Bequeathed to the University t)y Dr RIchard Rawlin'son,

Gentleman Commoner of st John's College (MA 1713, Hon. DCL

1719), a keen antiquary and avid collector in many fields, who died

in 1755. Rawlinson had been a severe critic of the managcmcnt of

the Ashmolean Museum and established in his will a fund to pay

for a proper keeper of it (who was to be neither a Scotsman nor in

holy orders). Hc also bequeathed a few trifles to it (including a

model gondola and a Muscovian fox). Rawlinson 'had formed his

collection [of classical marbles], in which there was certainly a good

deal of rubbish, principally at the Kemp sale and the Oxford sale'

(A. Michaelis, 4#c;c7£f jl4l¢r¢/Gf ;7z G7c¢f Brz.£#¢.ce (Cambridge,

1882), 539; Chandler, op. cit., pp. V-VI). The sale of John Kcmp

FRS was in March 1720/I (the catalogue, by R. Ajnsworth was

entitled Moov#77¢e"f# pc£#J£#}¢.J i(c7#P¢.¢#¢ (London,1920)) and

that of the earl of Oxford was in March 1741/2.

Michaelis in his late ninetccnth-century catalogue of the

antique marbles in Oxford (op. cit. 591, no. 222 observed

merely that this relief is 'new', by which he meant not ancient,

as had bccn assumed by Chandler in the eighteenth century

(op. cit. i, pl. XLIV, no. XCII). It is likely to be Italian and

possibly sixteenth or seventeenth century, but more probably

early eighteenth century, in date. The style of hair and

youthful, blandly idealized profile suggests the numerous

portraits of Augustus. There are similar low relief crowned

heads in profile in the second plane of the ancient Roman

relief sculpture representing processions and triumphs: the

head immediately in front of the empcror's chariot in one of

the reliefs in the interior of the Arch of Titus (c. AD 90) and

scvcral heads in the relief of the V¢.co77¢¢g¢.Jfr¢. (AD 41-50) in

the Museo Grcgoriano Profano are convenient examples.


@@152

152. Farnese Hercules

56.4 cms. (height including plinth, but excluding the rough

iLre°n';Ci]°o?:,:::#;to)'63ccm|S(#tghhto##)1.a4t8:C±!':fe:;:S

of rough projection below the plinth)

Terracotta of a Pale biscuit Colour. Solid. The hcro's head, arms, left

leg (at knee), and right leg (at lower thigh), also the drapery behind

the club and the base beside the feet, have been broken off and

:Ps'sa[:egdalwo[:hg:hpe'ajsot,enrsceTmh:nfa:£':cia;;ev:?e:V;::::.ncohdpiahir:nght

arm now t€rminatcs in a stump and his left has a crudely modelled

substitute hand. '9427/ 1936 / eGg' is painted in black on the

underside of the plinth at the back.

Transferred from the Department of Antiquities, after the refixing

of some of the repairs, in August 1987. The terracotta was one of

numerous objects (chiefly flints, amulets, and gem impressions)

which were transferred from the Wellcome Institute for the History

of Medicine to the Department of Antiquities on 29 June 1982

(after an agrccment rcached in November 1981). Eric J. Freeman,

Librarian of the Wcllcome Institute for the History of Medicine,

wrote on 3 December 198z in reply to enquiries conccming the

provenance, that the terracotta must have come from the Gorga

Collection (hence 'eGg'). Wellcomc purchased the collection of

medical and other antiquities formed by Signor Even Gorga of 285

Via Cola di Rienzo, Rome, in 1924 (having first made overtures to

do so in February 1912). The figure is likely to be the 'Terra cotta

statucttc (Hercules) W. 67' in the list of 'cascs and contents' made

in Rome in 1924. There were, however, over 300 terracotta items

in the collection and at least one other terracotta Herc#/ef.

The terracotta is a copy of the famous antique statue in the

Farnese Collection of Hercules resting after his labours. It

could have been made in the sevcntecnth, eighteenth, or

ninctccnth century. There is another, slightly smaller,

terracotta copy of the Herc#/ct signed by Maderno in the

Ashmolean (No. 56), also a large and small bronze copy

(Nos. 414, 416). This is less sharply modelled and less detailed

than the Maderno and in some respects is closer to the

original, although of little artistic merit.


@@153

@@154

153 and 154. Hercules slaying the

Erymanthian Boar and Hercules

slaying Geryon

26cms. (height of No.153); 27cms. (height of No.154)

Terracotta. There are breaks across the base by the hero's left f'oot

in No.154, also in his raised rlght arm across biceps and wnst.

These have been mended, but are conspicuous. There are traces of

gilding on the lion skin and the boar in No.153 and also on parts

of No.154. Both groups are unfinished from behind and aLppcar to

have been scraped down. No.153 has on the underside of Its base

the following in blue pencil 'No 1818' and on a circular label in biro

'8976'. Nc).154 has in the same place some indecipherable marks

in blue pencil and on a circular label in biro '8977'.

Bought from the Arcade Gallery (I'aul Wcngraf), The Royal Arcade,

28 Old Bond Street, London Wl . Registered 12 I)ccember 1960.

The 4oz2;c#¢. were reSstered as possibly by Vincenzo dc Rossj

and described soon afterwards, in the A7¢7¢#¢/ Rep++7¢ (1960:

63) as follows:

Their tcnsc' muscular action and vigorous co"f7'¢4PoJfo recall the style

of Bandinelli's pupil, Vincenzo de' Rossi (1525-I 587), who was

commissioned by Cosimo de' Medici to execute the rwc/t7G J,¢4o#7-i

a/Hc7'cz£/cf in marble and larger than life. Work on the serles was

in progress in the Opera del Duomo by 1563 and two of the finished

groups were praised by Vasari in the 1568 edition of his LG.pcf. Six of the seven marbles complcted, including versions of Gcryon and

the Boar, still stand, as they were arranged in 1592, along opposite

walls of the Salone del Cinquecento in the Palazzo Vecchio.

For this seric's of sculptures see H. Utz, 'Thc I¢z4o7tf a/

Hc7.c#/cf and Other Works by Vincenzo de' Rossi', Ayf

B#//c£G.7g (Sept.1971), 344nd, where, however, these fro2;ze#G.

arc not mentioned, Professor Utz having expres'sed his

opinion, on seeing photographs of the groups, that they had

'nothing in common' with sculpture by de' Rossi. He thought

that they might bc cbnnccted with a minor sculptor in the

circle of Romulo del Tadda who was responsible for the

groups carved in ¢G.cfr¢ i.c7'e7¢¢ which were placed around the

4o/o#t7 of the B{]boli Gardens (letter of 13 April 1971 in the

Dcpartment's Archivc). Professor Ulrich Middcldorf had also

questioned the connection with de' Rossi as early as 23 June

1961, writing to Ian Robertson: 'Thc Labours of Hercules

have nothing to do with Bandinclli or Vincenzo dc' Rossi . .

They are as to period certainly closer to Maderno; but his

groups have diffcrcnt proportions, movements and detail'

(letter in the Dcpartment's Archive).

There is surely no reason why the groups should not date

from the sevetcenth or eighteenth century, nor is there any

reason for them to be Florentine, for, although the Labours

were especially popular subjects there in the fifteenth and

sixteenth century, they were popular all over Italy as well:

there are seventeenth- and eighteenth-century examples in or

from the Vencto which are similar in character and conceived

ITALIAN Scul,l'TURES: UNNAMED ARTIST

for niches (or at least to bc placed against a wall or hedgc)-

a pair of crude Istrian Stone groups of Hercules clubbing

cerberus alld tearing the jaws of the Nemcaii I,ion now flank

the cntralicc of Palazzo Pisani in Venice; others may be seen

in the grorinds of villas in the Vcncto; an impressive Hc7.c%/Gf

„„d f¢e JJ,yd7T# signed by Giovanni Marchiori and probably

t,f about 1760 is in a Private collection (F. Russell, 'A Statue

of Hcrculcs and the Hydra by Giovanni Marchiori',

j}„z/;#.7fo# A4¢g4}Z;7% (June 1972), 393 and fig. 58).

A sample from both terracotta groups was examined by

thermo-luminescence at the Oxford Research Laboratory for

Art and Archaeology in October 1986 and estimated as fired

between 240 and 370 years ago (ref. 38l-y-36).


@@155

155. Bust of a black boy wearing a

tasselled cap and frogged doublet

28.4cms. (height); 20.6cms. (length, across sleeves); 12.3 cms.

(height of socle); 13.2 cms. (diameter of base of socle)

Bronze with a natural chestnut coloured patim exposed, especially

in the face, beneath coloured varni'shes. The flesh is varnished blai-k;

the cap a dark black-grccn; the kerchief, shirt, part of the eyes, and

one tooth white; the kerchief ribbon and lips red. The varnishes

have chipped off or worn through in parts and have darkened in

colour. The doublet was covered with a gold varnish as were parts

of the cap: this is best preserved at the back of the ball attached to

the cap's tassell and in the ribbon attaching the feathers. Hollow,

heavy-walled, lost-wax, cast. Some flaws in the lower part of the

chest. The bust is open at the back of the chest and the head has

been filled with plaster. An old iron file embedded in the latter

extends to a waisted spreading socle of pc7idc ¢¢. Pr¢}o (Tuscan

Scrpentinc).

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888 and given later in the

same year. 8. 402 in his catalogucs. According to the notebook

catalogue it was bought in 1860 for £6 (the date but not the price

is given in the large catalogue). The bronze has long been in reserve.

Fortnum dcscribed this remarkable bronze as 'n. Italian,

probably Vcnctian'. Blacks of course played a large part in

Venetian art. He dated it to the sixteenth century, although

a later date seems more likely. Ailcen Ribeiro considers it

likely that it dates from the early eighteenth century and notes

that a livery combining 'hussar' and 'Vandyck' elements was

popular for servants then. The varnishes look old but may not

be oriSnal. That on the cap conceals the very carefully

punched foliatc pattern and thc. tcxtured contrast of the lining

which is turned over at the back. The socle, rccorded in

Fortnum's catalogucs, cannot be oridnal.


@@156

156. Virgin and Child with a

crescent moon

56 cms. (height); 64 cms. (length; 30.9 cms. (height of oval relief

within oval hamc); 26 cms. (width of relief within oval frame);

18.2 cms. (height of vlrgn from top of head to the sleeve below

the wrist)

The relief of the Virgin and Child is certainly of terracotta. The

framework has been described as of stone but seems also to be of

terracotta. The rear of the relief is made up with lath and plaster and

some bricks. The Virgin is clothed in red with a blue cloak. The

ground ag nst which the swags are set is a green blue and there are

traces of green on the ground around the oval. But most colouring

has darkened and flaked. Much seems also to have bccn distressed.

Bought from the Arcade Gallery (Paul Wcngraf), The Royal Arcade,

28 Old Bond Street, London W1, in 1964, Registered immediately

a.frcr the terracotta relief' attributed to Mazza (No. 78) without a

date but becwecn 10 and 16 June. The relief is shown in photographs

dated 1966 high on the wall of the Fox Strangways Gallery. It has

long been in reserve.

The relief was associated by Ian Robcrtson with Giuseppc

Mazza because of its supposed similarity to the terracotta

relief of the V¢.7g¢.7¢ ¢"ed C¢z./4Z which hc bought at about the

same time (No. 78), although he conceded that it was 'less

masterly in modelling' (4„72#¢/ Repo7¢ (I 964), 51). The relief

certainly looks Italian and of thc. seventeenth or eighteenth

century. The architectural framework, colouring, and material

would suggest that this originated as a popular strcct shrine.

The removal of such, however, was not easily achieved even

in the upheavals at the end of the Second World War. Work

of this character and of such moderate quality is easily imitated.


@@157

157. A young martyr stoned and

beaten

31.5 cms. (height); 43.3 cms. (length); 41.5 cms (outside height

of frame); 53.5 cms. (outside width of frame)

Terracotta of a pale orange colour coated with a yellowish grey slip

which has been rubbed to a warm brown on some salient parts

(such as the buttocks of the flagcllator and the foreheads of the most

prominent elders). Mounted against a ruddy brown velvet framed

with a gilt wood reverse moulding.

Bought at the Arcade Gallery (Paul Wengraf), The Royal Arcade,

28 Old Bond Street, Ijondon W1, for £850 in July 1962 (receipt

dated 14 July, registered without a date but between 21 July and 6

August) with the aid of a grant from the Regional Fund administered

by the Victoria and Albert Museum. Bought by Wcngraf at

Sotheby's, Ijondon,10 May 1962, as lot 92. Framed by the Museiim

in 1962 (4%%%¢/ RcPo7+, p. 27).

The subject was identified at auction, by the dcalcr selling it,

and by the Keeper (lan Robertson) buying it, as the

I/¢2re//¢£"% a/ C¢%.Jf, but, as Alastair ljaing has pointed out,

two of the bearded cldcrs appear to bc preparing to stone

the victim, only one figure is about to beat him, thcrc is a

crowned figure seated behind and presiding over the scene,

accompanied by a large chorus of elders (also assembled to

proper left) all of which is unorthodox in a I/¢27e//¢£¢.o7¢.

Moreover, if Christ is represented by the figure tied to the

column, hc is unusually small in size. It may bc that the

episode rcprcsented is a relatively obscure one in the life of a

martyr. Robertson, publishing the relief in the A7?73#¢/ RcPo#

(1962: 63), wrote that there was 'no evidence to uphold the

tentative attribution made there either to Antonio Calcagni

or to Tiberio Verzelli'. He was sure, however, that it was

Venetian and mid-sixteenth century in date and added that

it was 'Mastcrly both in composition and exccution' and

'clearly a 7»ode//a or trial piece for a panel in relief in a bronze

door'. There seems no good reason to assign it to the sixteenth

century and the concave-sided frame with cherubim in the

chamfered corners is more typical of the seventeenth or early

eighteenth century. It docs not look certainly Venetian in

style. And it could be a 772odc//a for a panel in marble or stucco

on a plinth below a statue, or perhaps for a silver relief on an

altar. It is not 'clearly' for a door. Nor is it 'masterly'. It looks

like a pastiche and its antiquity has been put in doubt by the

thcrmo-lumincscence test carried out on a sample taken by

Mrs Doreen Stoneham of the Rcscarch Laboratory for

Archaeology and the History of Art in April 1974 which

suggested that it was fired less than 115 years previouLsly (ref.

8|-in-65).

It has recently been observed by Peter Cannon-Brookes

that this is clearly related t:o one of the marble reliefs of the

life of St Trifone in the Cathedral of Boka Kotorska (Bocc¢G

d; C¢f}¢yo) on the Dalmatian coast. A similar modello for

another of these reliefs is in the Aartsbisschoppelijk Museum,

Utrecht. The marble reliefs arc by Franccsco Ca' Bianca

(1665~1737) and can be dated 1700-1704. They are very

much more timid in style than the terracottas which might

be by another hand. How this is rcconciled with the suspicions

voiced above is not clear.


@@158

158. Charity in a landscape

32.7 cms. (height); 40.75 cms. (length); 7 cms. (maximum depth

of relief)

Terracotta, painted naturalistically. The colours have deteriorated

a|id the flesh is now a green grey and the foliage is brown. The clay

has been slightly hollowed behind the woman. At the base it has

been thickened and forms a flat surfce, the other edges are irregular.

The p nt has flaked off the woman's light shoulder and arm, the

face of the infant to her nght, and the body of the older child to

her left. '4905' is written on the reverse of the relief in the upper

corner to proper right.

Bought from the Arcade Gallery (Paul Wcngraf), The Royal Arcade,

28 Old Bond Street, Ijondon Wl, in September 1960 for £350

(the invoice is dated 20 September, the receipt 22 September, but

the work was registered on 8 August).

Charley is traditionally represented as nursing three eager

children and not uncommonly €xprcssing milk, as seems to

be the casc. here, into the mouth of the oldest and most active

of them. The nest full of young birds, which is somewhat

roughly indicated in the crook of the trcc to proper right, is

t]bvittusly an a.ppropriate attlibutc. It is hard to imagine how

a work like this could have been originally displayed (a frame

would be impossible). It would secm likely that it was a

sketch for a la.rger rclicf and that the colouring was not

intended. Parker publishing it in the 47¢»"¢/ RcPo7¢ observed

that it was 'suggestivc in style of thc Gcnocsc school of the

early Eighteenth Century', adding that 'the namc. of

Francesco Maria Schiaffino (1691-1765) has been tcntativcly

put forward a.s the author, but, for the prcscnt, comparative

material to support this attribution is not forthcoming'. It

was, it seems, the dcalcr who first suggested Schiaffino. A

note in the Register records a letter from Hugh Honour to

the Keeper of 11 May 1961 proposing other Genoese

sculptors of the early eighteenth century, Domenico Parodi

or Anton Maria Maragliano. There scems no compelling

reason to associate the rclicf with the Genocsc. School, nor

can it bc regarded as certainly Italian.


@@159

159. Set of profile medallion

portrait heads of the Twelve Caesars

5.5 cms. (height of each ivory medallion); 4.3 cms. (width of each

ivory medallion); 5 cms. (height of.each medallion visible within

its frame); 4 cms. (width of each medallion visible within its frame)

Ivory, mounted in frames of bronze, fire-gilt (ormolu), which are

pinned to a stand of ebonized wood. The eight portraits on the

front of the stand are linked by the swags of husks, also of bronze,

fire-gilt. Many portions of the ormolu mounts have been removed,

some of them in recent years. The bronze ribbons above Titus have

a firing crack in the suspension loop and the end of the ribbon t{)

proper right is missing. The entire swag of husks connecting the

medallion of Augustus with that of Tibcrius and the ring mid-way

between them from which the medallion of Claudius is hung are

missing. The ivory medallions arc chisclled with the names of the

emperors represented: 'DOMIt (for Domitian); 'TI-LUS'; 'G ILTL' (for

Ga]us)ulius Caesar); 'NERo'; 'G CAES' (for Gaius Caligula); 'AUG'

(for Augustus); 'GALBA'; 'TI CIAul)' (for Claudius); 'TI CAES' (for

Tiberius); 'M oTHo' (for Otho); 'A vl.rELi' (for Vitcllius); 'vEspAs'

(forvespasian).

The ivories are attached to the stand which forms part of the

Fitzwilliam Coin Cabinet bought at auction in 1949 for the

Hcberdcn Coin Room (see Nos. 35 and 63).

The mounts consist of shot against a flat band (the band given

a punched tcxturc), husk swags (similarly textured), and

suspension ribbons with fluttering ends (a punched texture

on one side contrasted with a burnished reverse). The design

is typical of the 1770s and could hardly bc earlier than the

mid-1760s. It is reminiscent of the patterns cmployed,

especially for stucco interior decoration, by Sir Wnliam

Chambers, James Stuart, and John Carr of York-the last

two named architects, being employed by the marquess of

Rockingham to make improvements at Wentworth

Woodhouse, could indeed have designed the stand to which

these mounts arc applied. The stand, with its tapering square

legs and avoidance of curves, is of sophisticated design,

although not of superior workmanship or materials. It serves

to support and supplement the Pz.cfy¢ d#7¢ cabinet which was

converted to serve as a coin cabinet as discussed under No. 35.

The heads of the Cacsars are an obvious enough ornament

for a coin cabinet: a late eighteenth-century example with

exceptionally large bronze plaqucttes of the Caesars was with

an antique dealer in Chipping Norton carly in 1989. But it

is surprising that a keen numismatist such as the marquess of

Rockingham, for whom the cabinet was presumably made,

should have tolerated such chronoloScal disorder in the

arrangement of these meda'llions on the outside of a piece of

Medallions on the front Of the stand furniture designed to keep medals and coins in proper

seqiience. The only cvidcncc of thought in the arrangement

is the priority given to Augustus in the centre of the top row

below the keyhole. The explanation for this disorder may bc

in an unrccorded restoration of the cabinet, perhaps during

the last century. Ijord Rockingham sccms to have owned

some other furniture of a superior character, similarly

decorated, for in the sale at Christie's, Ijondon, of 'Etruscan

and Greek Vases and Fine English Furniturc' from Wentworth

Woodhousc on 15 July 1948, lot 135 was a 'Pair of Adam

mahogany show cabinets the cornices with upsprung foliage

and with festoons suspended from ivory medallions carved in

relief from busts of Roman Emperors and others'.

It may be that the ivories on the coin cabinets were carved

at the same date as the mounts, but it is much more likely

that they wcrc purchased at an earlier date and had not

previously served as moiints. In any case they had to be

supplcmented by two ivories of a different character (Nos. 160

and 161) and the arrangement looks improvised. Rockingham

had travelled all over Europe and bought from other collectors

who had done so, so there is no reason to suppose that the

ivories are of British origiv.

Medallion portraits of the Cacsars of the type which are

imitated from Roman coinage (the source often being

sixteenth-century engravings of such coin portraits by

Marcantonio Raimondi, Hubert Goltzius, or Theodore de

Bry) are common in a variety of size and media. Some metal

plaqucttcs of the Caesars, many with identical portraits to

those in the set catalogued here, seem to be Italian and of the

mid-sixteenth century: a set of bronzcs is in the

Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna (IN. 7689-99, for which

see Natter und Antihe in der Renaissance (TiehiieghaLus.

F'rankfurt on Main, 1985nd), 345-9, nos. 3646) and one

of lead in the municipal collections of Fcrrara (see R. Varese, Placchette e bronzi neile Civiche Collezioni (Fc[[a,[aL ar\d

Pomposa,1974-5), 43nd). During the early seventeenth

century such portraits were very popular in Ijimogcs enamel

(there arc some examples in the Ashmolean Museum, but for

the complete range see Mus6e de la Renaissance, Chateau

d'f,coucn, Clj. 22625-8; Clj.10965-8; CL. 22629-34).

Probably dating from the cnd of the seventeenth century arc

some ivory examples in which the head is cut out rather than

part of an oval ivory medallion-'cut out' furniture mounts

being popular in this period (see No. 256). The most splendid

set of this type is that in the Bayerisches Nationalmuseum,

Munich, in which the heads are placed ag nst a tortoiseshell

ground (they are arranged in two frames-R. 1050 and

R.105l-and labelled as German of e1700). Another set

of good quality is in the Staatlichc Muscen, Berlin-Dahlem,

and is catalogued as 'north German?' by eTheuerkauff (D¢.c

Bildwerke in Elf ;enbein des 16.~ 19. Jahrhunderts (Bc:hir\.

1986), 307-13 mos. 96-107). A very similar set, but of lower

quality, mounted on a single tray, was with the Mount Street

Galleries, 125 Mount Street, I,ondon, in June 1986. In this

case there were ivory labels with the names of the emperors

spelled in a way that suggests an Italian origin.

Ivory medallions of the type catalogued here arc generally

regarded as dating from the mid-eighteenth century or later.

A set differing only in trifling details (such as the movement

of the ribbon behind the neck of vespasian), mounted in two

ebonized frames, was lot 118 on 30 June 1987 at Phillips,

London. Another set in a private collection, also very similar,

is mounted as a book, in exactly the manner employed for

gcsso impressions of the same subjects, with an Italian text.

A distinctive feature of all these medallions is that the emperors

are now all represented with their profiles facing to the right

whereas in the earner cut-out ivories, as in the bronze and

lead plaquettes, half the profiles face the other way.


@@160

@@161

160 and 161. Profile medallion

portrait busts of Hadrian and

6Sabina,

7.7 cms. (height of each medallion visiblc' within its frame);

5.9 cms. (width of each medallion visible within its frame); 9 i'ms.

(height of each beaded frame); 14.7cms. (hcicht of each mount

including suspension of ribbon); 6 cms. (width of each beaded

frame)

Ivory, mounted in frames of ivory, fire-gilt (ormolu) pinned to an

c'bonized stand. There are slight vertical splits on the head and neck

of'Hadrian. The surface of those of sabina is abraded and slightly

discoloured. The mounts are cast from an identical mould. The end

of.the ribbtin to proper left of the mount of the portrait of' Sabina

has been broken off and is missing.

The ivories are attached to the stand which forms part of the

Fitzwilliam Coin Cabinet bought at auction in 1949 for the

Heberden Coin Room (see Nos. 35, 63,159).

The ivories are clearly by a different artist from the other ivory

medallions of the Caesars on the same cabinet (No.159).

These arc larger, more elegant, doubtless based on idcalized

bust sculpture rather than on the conventions of numismatic

portraiture. That their prototypes are exactly adhered to is

suggested by the disparity in the cutting of the chest. This

night also suggest that they in fact came from different sets,

but the style of carving is very similar. Their incorporation

into the coin cabinet strongly suggests that the ornamentation

t>f the cabinet was improvised out of a miscellany of existing

ivories in Ijord Rockingham's collection. Had hc ordered a

set t]f ivories for this purpose he would have included other

emperors and other profiles facing left, would have had all the

medallit>ns of a standard size, and would not have included

only one emperor from a later dynasty. Moreover the tightness

of the frame around the chest of Hadrian and around the

head and chest of sabina suggests that the medallions have

bccn adapted for these mounts. The portrait of Hadrian''s

consort, Sabina, does not correspond with any recorded in

such standard sot]rces of the period as the Jco#o2r7iap4G.c

ytJ%¢¢.#c by A. Mongez, (Paris,1826), and it may have bccn

mistaken for Sabina or intended to pass for her. The other

bust is certainly a portrait of Hadrian.


@@162

162. Standing bull

33.4 cms. (height); 40.6 cms. (length); 2.6 cms. (height of marble

slab); 40.6 cms. (length of marble slab); 17.9 cms. (width of

marble slab); 5 cms. (height of wooden plinth); 47 cms. (length

of wooden plinth); 24 cms. (width of wooden plinth)

Bronze with a dark brown to golden brown patina. Hollow,

presumably lost-wax, cast. The tail has been cast separately and

riveted. The metal has bccn scratched to suggest hair. The bronze

is mounted on a slab of sicna yellow marble with an ebonized

wooden plinth.

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1899. 8. 443 in his catalogues.

'Bought of Maggi of Genoa with others 1848 £30' according to

the preliminary and the notebook catalogues-the other bronzes

which hc obtalned from this source in 1848 are the /#P;fGr (No.

337), the Ce#£##r w¢.#47 C#P¢.d (No. 164), and the famous I;#cce¢."g

Pfl}" formerly attributed to Riccio. I,ong in reserve, the bronze was

placed on display in the Fortnum Gallery in 1985.

The bronze 8#// is not dissimilar in character to a smaller

one with its right foot raised which was cast in large numbers

by the workshop of Giambologna, and this explains the

rclativcly early date often given to it. The version in the

Liebieghaus, Frankfurt (no. 1339), is described on an old

label as 'Italian, sixteenth-century', which was the opinion

published by H. Weihrauch, E„rop¢G.Jc¢c Bro»2;£J£#fz£G#c7¢

(Brunswick, 1967), 379. The version in the Wallace

Collection (in the Hertford House Collection by 1834) was

catalogued by J. G. Mann as Italian and of the scventecnth

or e.\chteenth century (W:allace Collection Catalo2gtte§:

Sc"/4£"yG (1931), with supplement of 1981, S143, p. 52).

Fortnum seems at first to have regarded his version as by 'an

able caster probably French and of the period of Louis XIV'

but he amcnded his entry in his notebook catalogue inserting 'Italian' after the 'probably' and a 'pcrhaps' before the

'French' and changing the 'XIV' to 'XV or XVI'.

The prototype, as Fortnum knew, was the much restored

antique 8#// carved out of a fine-grained spcckled grey marble

in the Sala degli Animali of the Museo Pio-Clementino in the

Vat:ican. This is now known to have been excavated between

1775 and 1780 at Ostia and so the bronzc versions cannot

date from before then (W. Amelung, D¢.G S4#/Pfz¢rc„ def

V¢fG.c¢„¢.fc¢c# A4:#fc"eeJ (Berlin,1908), ii. 340, no.131,

pl. 33., C. Pietrangch, Scavi e scoperte di antichitd §otto il

Pop?f¢¢c¢fo dG. P¢.a VJ (Rome,1958), 113). The earliest

reference to it in literature seems to be Massi's I"d¢.c¢2;¢.o7ec

¢73f¢.g#¢r;a of 1792 (41, no.14) and it is unlikely to have

been reproduced before then. The bronzcs are more or less

exactly the same size as the marble and differ only in that they

dispense with the tree trunk support under the animal's belly.

It is worth noting that the Vatican 8#// may be the one listed

by Zoffoli (see Nos. I 10-11) in his printed Sc7¢.e 4J¢./rz7#rG

available in bronze from his Roman showroom in the 1790s,

as the rorc#o, the little bull, next on the list to, and perhaps

intended as a companion for, an e'co7ic47c' Tiger (Nofoee¢.¢ d¢.

f¢givc). But hc offered his bronzcs of this subject for sale at

10 zecchini and they must at this price have been smaller than

the Ashmolean's version. TorG#o could also dcscribc a bull

of the Giambologna type. Too much significance should not

be attached to the provenance of Fortnum's piece, but the

fact that this is after a relatively obscure sculpture in the

Vatican does make Rome the most probable place of origin.

It was copied in Portuguese earthcnwarc later in the

nineteenth century at the Mafra factory at Caldas da Rainha

(scc J. Poole, P/¢g;¢r;f7" Pc7tfo7OG¢Gd (Fitzwilliam Museum,

Cambridge, 1986), 32, no. D12).

For the bronze L¢.o" commissioned by Fortnum as a

companion to this 8#// see No. 87.


@@163

163. Medallion profile head of a

hero or ruler

37.5 cms. (hcight including base); 33.4 cms. (diamctcr of marble

re[icf)

Carrara marble, discol(]ured by dirt. Chipped at the rim at lower

proper right The relief is circular and has been set in a Portland

stone base.

Transferred from the Department of Antiquities in 1986.

Bcqucathed by I)r Richard Rawlinson. For the provcriancc see No.

151. The stone support seems not to have been in place in 1763

when the rclicf was published in R. Chandler, A4¢rowo7i¢ O#o7£¢.e#j¢.¢

(Oxford,1763), i, pl. XI,V. no. CVIII.

Adolf Michaclis in his late nineteenth-century catalogue of the

antique sculpture in Oxford (A#c£.e7cf A4¢rz7/er ¢.7¢ Gre¢f

By¢.f¢¢.7¢ (Cambridge,1882), 591, no. 223) observed merely

that this relief is 'iicw', by which he meant not ancient as had

been assumed by Chandler in the eighteenth century

(op. cit.). It is likely to be Italian and probably dates from the

early eighteenth century. It may be imitated from the head

of a ruler on a Hellenistic coin.

164. Centaur ridden by Cupid

40.5 cms. (height of centaur); 17.6 cms. (height of cupid); 3.6

cms. (height of green marble plinth); 27.2 cms. (length of this

plinth); 16 cms. (width of.this plinth 9.4 cms. (height of marble

sub-plinth); 30.8 cms. (length of this plinth); 19.9 cms. (width

of same)

The centaur is of bronze with a dark brown to black varnish worn

in parts to expose a chestnut patina. Hollow, presumably lost-wax,

cast. The Cupid is of silver, also hollow cast, with separate, solid-cast,

wings soldered to his body. The silver has tarnished to a dull

pale brown and grey. The wrists of the centaur arc attached to the

Cupid with a miniature silver chain. The centaur seems to have

been cast in two parts: an irregular join is visible just below the

waist. The supporting rock below one foot has bccn separately cast.

The centaur is mounted on a plinth of very dark green marble (said

by For[num to be 'thc richest quality vcrd-antique') to the short

faces of which an ormolu swag of flowers is attached and to the long

faces strips of ormolu, that at the front with raised letters against a

textured field reading: 'C,OME'I, CENTAURO, AMOR , DF.H ANNODA IL

TEMPo!' and that on the back engraved with cursive letters 'Gioanni

da Bologna . Fecc il Centauro. Gioanni Dughe fece l'amore'. This

plinth rests on a sub-plinth consisting of a slab of streaky dove grey

marble (probably from Carrara) supporting a slab of white Carrara

marble each side of which is decorated in very low relief 'with a

guilloche of leafy sprays which intertwine between inlaid coloured

agates etc.' (Fortnum)-ach of these stones is oval; among them

are pieces of antique imperial porphyry, cornelians, and antique

onyx. There arc small chips and scratches, especially to the edges

of the plinth.

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1899. 8. 440 in his catalogucs.

Bought by Fortnum from Maggi of Genoa in 1848 for £25

accctrding to the notebook and the preliminary catalogucs (no date,

provcnancc, or price is given in the large manuscript catalogue).

On display in the Coin Room lobby since 1956.

The group was catalogued by Fortnum as 'after one of the

Centaurs of the Capitolonc Museum found in Hadrian's Villa

at Tivoli'. These black marble Cc7¢£##7tf (missing their riders)

were excavated in 1736 and placed in the Museum by 1765

(see F. Haskcll and N. Penny, T¢t}c ¢»¢ £¢c A7gf¢.g#c (London

and New Haven, Conn.,1981),178-9). It is, however,

possible that the antique prototype for the Ashmolean group

was the white marble Cc»f##r which was by the early

scvcntecnth century in the Borghese Collection but has, since

the early nineteenth century, bccn in the Louvre (ibid. 179),

although the silver Cupid is diffcrcnt in attitude from the

much-restored figure on the back of that version. In details

this small centaur docs not correspond exactly with either the

Borghese or the Capitolinc examples: the sexual organ has

been omitted as have the veins on the belly. More generally

there is much less sinew and muscle in the body and much

less pathos in the face. Bronze reproductions of the Capitolinc

versions signed by RIghctti in the late eighteenth century and

the bronze reproduction of the Borghcse version in the

collection of sir Brinsley Ford are not only more exact but

far more lively than this.

The attribution of the centaur to Giambologna ('Gioanni

Bologna') need not be taken seriously, although Fortnum

presumably did date the work to the late sixteenth century for this reason. The attribution of the Cupid to 'Gioanni

Dughe', presumably Jean Dughet, Poussin's brother-in-law,

is far more peculiar and merits explanation if not respect. It

prompted Bell to give the group a seventeenth-century date.

The insipid modelling and neat but prissy finish of the centaur

would surely bc less surprising in the eighteenth century than

in the scventcenth-it would be still less unusual in the carly

nineteenth century. The Cupid is quite different in style as

the double attribution acknowledges. It is typical of the

blandly smiling and flabbily gracious version of the baroque

style much bcloved by Italian goldsmiths from the late

seventeenth century onwards and still evident in ecclesiastical

altar fittings of a traditional kind made today. The pose of

the Cupid is not well suited to the mount and he rclatcs

uncomfortably to the centaur's tail.

The sub-plinth looks as if it cannot be much earlier in date

than 1848 when Fortnum acquired the group and the green

marble plinth, if older, may not bc much eahicr in date. The

manner in which the centaur is bolted to the plinth at three

points does not look as if it is original. A rock has been added

to the ccntaur's back left hoof and the back right hoof has

an extension enabling it to make proper contact with the

plinth. There is a crack in the marble. where the latter has

been bolted. Bell in his marginal annotation to Fortnum's

large catalogue observes that 'the Motto on the plinth may

perhaps indicate that with its present setting the group was at

one time intended to dccoratc a clock'.


@@165

165. Terminal head of a maenad

17.5 cms. (height including plinth); 2 cms. (height of plinth)

G¢.a//a ¢#fG.co (yellow marble from Roman Numidian quarrlcs). There

is an old crack across the neck and the hair falling down beside it

to proper right. There are los'ses along the front edge of the chest

and on the nose which have been made lip with plaster tinted to

match the marble (but in the case of the nose now scratched in parts

to rcvcal the white of the plaster). The lcavcs and berries below the

ear to proper left have been broken and repaired. There are chips

missing from many of the leaves. Mounted on a plinth consisting

of a block of pale Siena marble with a paper label pasted to the front

face with 'oLDFIELD Col,I..' typed on it and '62' wlitten in ink.

Transferred in August 1986 from the Department of Antiquities.

Bequeathed by Edmund Old field FSA in 1902. No. 3 in the section

'Marble' of the list given in a letter from Oldfield's solicitors on 16

May-where described as 'a small mask of youthful faun'. No. 62 in

the 'Catalogue of works presented and bcqueathed by Edmund

Oldficld' which is compiled out of Oldficld's own manuscripts,

where descnbed as 'terminal bust of a Maenad'. Additional notes,

apparently by Arthur Evans, record that Oldfield bought the head

at the Purnell Sale at Sotheby's in April 1872. For Oldficld see also

No. 56.

Miniature aritique Roman heads of this sort do survive and

there sccms to have been no suspicion when this item was

received in the Dcpartmcnt of Antiquities that it was not

ancient. However, the suspicions when they did arise were

justified. There was a vogue for such works, often carved out

of scraps of antique marble and copying famous heads in the

great Roman museums, in the late cightecnth century. Charles

Hcathcotc Tatham acting as agent in Rome for the architect

Henry Holland included drawings of ten such among

numerous miniature obelisks, urns, and baths in coloured

marble on a shcct captioned 'Various modern ornamcnts for

Chimney I'ieces &c. (chiefly worked in antique marbles of

the rarest kind, & others found in excavations made at Rome)

collected there for Henry Houand Esq. Architect in the years

1795 & 1796' (Album of sketches, private collection). One

of these heads is very similar to this term except that it is cut

at the neck and mounted on a columnar pedestal. For other

heads of this sort see Nos. 166-8.


@@166

166. Terminal head of Jupiter

12.5 cms. (height)

GG.¢//a 4I#f¢.co (yellow marble fi-om Roman Numidian quarries). The

marble has a pink band and white vein. A small chip is missing from

the front edges of the chest. 'e / S.33' is painted in black on the

rcaf of the term and below this '3182' is written in pencil.

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1899. S. 33 in his catalogues.

Employed by him as a chimney-piece ornancnt at the Hill House,

Stanmore, together with three similar pieces (see Nos. 16z 168,

and 169). 'Bought for £3-10s at the Sale of the Debruge Coll.'

[that is the Debruge-Dum€nil Collection of o4y.c# ed'¢# -for which

see No. 292] in Paris, 23~31 January,1-11 February and 12 March

1850,lot 134 (449, no. 134, in Jules Ijabarte's catalogue of

|847)~'marbre jaune antique tete de Jupiter d'apies 1'antique 13

ccntimetres'. In his preliminary catalogue (p. 7) Fortnum noted that

this head had a pedestal of roj}o ¢~fG.co.

For heads of this sort see No.165. Fortnum catalogued this

correctly as 'a reduced copy, probably from the antique.

Italian l8th or early 19th century'. The work copied is the

head of the VGroJPG./oyc in the Museo Plo-Clementino of the

Vatican.


@@167

167. Terminal head of silenus

12.55 cms. (height incliiding brass base)

White, presumably Carrara, marble, now brown with ingrained dust.

It has been broken across the beard and the lower part of the head:

the adhesive employed to fix it has darkened and the line of the join

although fine is therefore visible. The bust is mounted in a tray base

of brass with a machined torus moulding. 'e / S.3' is painted in

black on the rear of the term. There arc a small oval paper label and

a small lozenge-shaped paper label with a blue border both marked

'52' on the underside of the base.

Ijent by C. D. E. Fortnum in January 1888 and given later in the

sane year. S. 3 in his catalogues. Employed by him as a chimney-

piece ornament at the Hill House, Stanmore, together with three

similar pieces (see Nos. 166,168, and 169). Bought at the sale of

the Debruge-Dumenil Collection of o4/.cff d'¢# (for which see No.

292) in Paris, 23-31 January,I-11 February, and 12 March 1850,

lot 136 (no.136 in Jules Labarte's catalogue of 1847)-'marbre

blanc. Bustc de Silene couronn€ de pampres 14 celits.' It cost

Fortnum £3 10s. according to his notebook catalogue.

For heads of this sort scc No.165. This exanplc is probably

a companion piece for No.168. The brass base has been lost

from the latter and the use of the drin is more conspicuous

in it. Fortnum believed it to bc an ancient Roman piece

broken from a sacrophagus relief and 'worked up' as a bust.


@@168

168. Terminal head of Jupiter

inmon

11.5 cms. (height)

White, presumably Carrara, marble, now brown with ingrained dust.

It has been broken at the top of the neck and rcfixed. The pr(>per

left horn has been broken and most of it is lost. There are extenLsive

traces of darkened adhesive on the stump of the horn. 'e / S.4' is

painted in black on the rear of the term.

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum in January 1888 and given later in the

same year. S. 4 in his ca[alogues. Employed by him as a chimney-

piece ornament at the Hill House, Stanmore, together with three

similar pieces (see Nos. 166,16z and 169). Bought from the sale

of the Dcbruge-Dum€nil Collection of oZ7ycff d'¢7t (for which see

No. 292) in Parts, 23-31 January,1-11 February, and 12 March

1850, lot 135 (no.135 in Jules Ijabartc's c¢f¢/o2r%G /¢G.Jo%»G' of

1847)-'marbre blanc, Buste de Satyr. 12 centimctres'. It cost

Fortnum £3 10s. according to his notebook catalogue.

For heads of this sort see No.165. This example is probably

a companion piece for No. 167. Fortnum believed it to be

of I'an and thought it was broken from the same relief.


@@169

169. Mask of pan or Silenus

17 cms. (height)

Gz.a//a ¢#fG.co (yellow marble from Roman Numidian ciuarries),

considerably abraded, also bleached, probably from expo'sure to the

elements. The eye sockets arc hollow as if designed for eyes of

different coloured stone or paste. A portion has been broken off by

the proper left car and from the end of the central ringlct of the

beard. The back of the mask is flat with holes filled with plaster of

Paris in which large nails have been set There is also a large patch

of old glue on the flat back. 'S. / 2. / a.' is painted in black there.

I,ent by C. D. E. Fortnum in January 1888 and given later in the

same year. 'S. 2' in his catalogues. Employed by him as a chimney-

piece ornament at the Hill House, Stanmore, together with thrcc

similar picccs (see Nos.166,16z and 168). 'from near Athcns'

according to botli the large and the notebook catalogues. Acquired

before 1857 when the preliminary catalogue, in which it is Included

(p. 1, no. 2), was compiled.

Although catalogued and displayed together with heads which

he knew to be modern miniat:urc chimney-piece copies

Fortnum regarded this as belonging to a different category-

'Greek. from near Athens. A boldly chiselled work full of

artistic power. Probably the hea.d of a terminal t)rnamcnt.' In

the notebook catalogue he speculated that the cyc cavities

would have bccn filled with coloured stone and after 'Greck'

added 'or Greco-Roman'. Given the material it would have

t:o date fr(>m after the Roman conquest of Greece, but it

certainly does look ancient at first sight. It has, however, been

confidently abandoned by the Department of Antiquities.


@@170

170. Four terminal busts of a

bearded hero or deity attached to a

bookcase

17.4 cms. (height of each); 9.2 cms. (length of each); 9 cms.

(width of each)

Bronze with a dark brown varnish woin in several parts to a dark

o|ivc green natural patina. IIollow, lost-wax, cast, precisely chiselled.

The busts are attached to, and were certainly made for, a bookcase

illustrated in the photographs of C. D. E. Fortnum's house at

Stanmore, probably dated from the later 1870s, but Included in the

album dated 1873. The bookease was not included by him in any of

his catalogues. It has long occupied the office of the Kccper of the

Department of Antiquities, but whether it arrived in the Museum

soon after Fortnum's death in 1899 or at a later date (for example

through Arthur Evans) is not recorded. See below for more on the

provenance.

The busts crown the pilasters which frame the three openings

in the lower, plinth, stage of a severe but magnificent

mahogany bookcase. Between each pilaster are glazed doors

(double in the centre) and above these is a fueze containing

drawers cmbeL[ished, above each bust, with four gilt bronze

or copper monograms of M and L interlaced below a royal

crown. The friezc supports a shelf of somewhat grey Po77o

pc7¢crc (gold vein) ma]-blc from Genoa, above which rises the

tall, narrower, rectangular upper stage of the case which is

decorated, in the 'sinps between the glazed doors, with an

applied beading of darkly patinatc'd bronze. This latter feature

together with the pattern of the glazing bars, is typical of

Tuscan nco-classicism. The. numbers a, b, and c marked on

ivory discs above the doors of the upper stage suggest that

the case comes from a larger suite. Bookcases of a very similar

character also with the same crowned monogram and similar

bronze busts attached to the pilasters are to be found in t=hc

Palazzo Pitti: these are recorded as coming from Lucca at the very end of 1850, and Alvar Gonzalez-Palacios has pointed

out (cataloguing a comparable piece in T77c Ad/.GcZ;vGf a/

JIG.f}ory (Colnaghi, June-July 1983), 34) that the monogram

is that of Maria Luisa di Borbone (1782-1823), daughter of

King Charles IV of Spain, who ruled the duchy of Lucca from

1817 until her death. The Ashmolean's bookcase must belong

to this period: the crown is explalned by Maria Luisa

continuing to style herself queen (she had been very briefly

quec'n of the newly created state of Etruria). Gonzalez-Palacios

notes that many talented cabinet makers, among them the

Frenchman I. 8. Youf, were active in ljucca in the early

nineteenth century.

Queen Maria Luisa's furniture was retained in I,ucca by

her son Carlo Ludovico and his wife Maria Teresa of Savoy

(daughter of victor Enrmanuel I) until 184z when they

became rulcl-s of Parma (which had been Luisa's husband's

duchy but had been granted at the Congress of vienna to

Marie Ijouisc of Austria during her lifetime). After 1847 the

furnishings of their palace in Lucca were dispersed, some

remaining in Ijucca, others being taken to Parma, and some

(such as the bookcases already mentioned) being removed to

Florence as the property of the grand duke of Tuscany to

whom the duchy of Lucca now belonged. This was the very

period at which Fortnum was starting to collect works of art

in Italy and it is likely that he acquired the bookcase around

1850 and probably in Florence or Genoa. Alternatively hc

might have acquired it in Florcncc in 1875 when he seems to

have bought many other items of furniture (e.g. Nos. 206,

209, 214, 215) for the refurbishment of stanmore, but by

that date he seems to have catalogued scrupulously his every

acquisition, whereas in 1850 hc probably did not regard even

furniture of this kind as worth recording as part of his

collection.

The bronze busts with their impassive expressions, the

flattened front plane of the foreheads, the distinct curls of

hair and beard, sylrmctrically disposed, must bc modeued on

a Roman marble copy of an archaic Greek bronze. The

severity of style was more easily accepted in ornamental and

architectural sculpture than in gallery statues in Napoleonic

(and post-Napoleonic) Italy, as in Hadrianic Rome.


@@171

171. Fortitude

107.2 cms. (height from the upper surface of the integral base

which js sunk in the top of the wooden pedestal); 102 cms.

(height of pedcstal); 48.5 cms. (diameter of base of pedestal)

Terracotta of a pale orange beige colour. Hollow and possibly cast.

The upper part of the helmet is detachable and seems to have been

fired separately. There is a break passing through the column and

the figurc's thighs. A large chip is missing from the lower part of the

column shaft. Traces of gilding remain on the sandals, thc column

plinth, the girdle, and the cresting of the helmet. White paint, or

at least a thin undercoat of gesso, remains in many of the hollows-its

partial survival making the plaster repairs to the break already

mentioned less conspicuous. The figure was mounted on a modern

oak pedcstal now employed for No. 78.

Ian Robertson wrote to Paul Wengraf of the Arcade Gallery (The

Royal Arcade, 28 Old Bond Street, Ijondon Wl) on 3 April 1963

that 'Although brought to the brink of bankruptcy by my so doing,

I have decided [o keep the terracotta figure, and accordingly enclose

my cheque for fl50.' The money had been found in the France

Bequest Fund. The sculpture was evidently already in the Museum

by Apnl: it was registered on 21 June.

'The figure, oriSnally polychromed and bearing traces of

gilding, is emblematic of the city of Bologna', according to

lan Robertson publishing it in the A7?7¢#¢/ RGPo77 (1963),

52-3. There seems, however, no reason to suppose that it is

anything more than a personification of Fortitude with the

not unusual attributes of helmet, column, and club of

Hercules. Robertson also wrote that it 'can bc surely assigned

to an artist of the Bolognese school, possibly a member of

the Gandolfi family of sculptors.' For the sculptural activity

of the Gandolfi see No. 37. This figure is not similar to any

others that may reasonably be attributed to them. The pose

is taken from a type of cross-lcgged antique Muse Polyhymnia

known in a number of surviving marble versions which Canova

so effectively imitated in his Tcrpfz.c¢orG (complcted in 1811).

The gravity of demeanour, the lack of all flutter in the drapery,

and the stationary and compact monumentality suggest a

date in the first half of the ninctcenth century. The figure no

]oubt comes from a series of virtues, perhaps adorning the

niches of a nco-classical palace, coloured white and gold to

accord with the surrounding decor. It was not uncommon

for terracotta to be used in this way and a number of figures

supposed to be of stucco have turned out to be of terracotta

Coated with gesso. A large terracotta statue of OJP4.£#/a.f¢ in a

private collection in Rome attributed by Federico Zeri to

Canillo Pacetti (1758-1826), published in Sc#/f#rG dc/ Acl7 ¢/

Xin secolo della collez,tone di Federico Zeri (M:Haln, Musco Poidl

Pezzoli, and Bergamo, Accadcmia Carrara,1989) 66, is in

\'ery similar taste, as are smaller terracotta figures in Z,eri's

i'ollection.

A Sample wa.s taken by Mrs Doreen Stoneham of the

Oxford Research Laboratory for Archaeology and the History

tJf Art in October 1986 and thermo-luminesccnce tests

Suggested that it had been fired between 1736 and 1836 (ref.

38l-y-29).


@@172

172. Profile head of a warrior

17.2 cms. (height from chin to forehead); 33. I cms. (width)

Terracotta of a beige colour, partially covered with paint, now

discoloured and flaking. The paint still cove ng much of the helmet

is a dark grey. That on the face is a paler grey. There are traces of

gliding on the crest of the helmet. The thickness of the relief varics

between 3 and 5 cms. The relief is only a fragment but the edge

behind the head and the corner behind the cresting of the helmet

appear to be original.

No provenance is recorded.

The Greek profile and parted lips and rich flowing locks

suggest the idealized portraits of Alexander the Great. The

relief is probably Italian. It could date from the sixteenth, or

the seventeenth, century but it morc' likely to have been made

in the eighteenth or nincte€nth, given the sympathy for, and

knowledge of, Grcck, as distinct from Roman, art which it

reveals.


@@173

173. Ganymede with the Eagle

220.I cms. (hcighr, including integral marble base); 74.5 cms.

(length, across the wings); 45.3 cms. (length of base); 29.2 cms.

(width of base)

White Carrara marble. There are grey patches in the marble below

the youth's right knee and at the back of the eagle's head and a

rusty vein across the youth's chest. There are rcpairs to the dog's

nose and its left car (the latter is now loose). Thcrc are chips missing

from the eagle's left wing at the tip and from behind the other wing.

The sub-base is carved from a separate block of marble and so is the

portion of the base to proper left together with the dog seated on

it. The eagle's left wing is separately carved and added: the join is

now loose. The drapery blown around in front of the yt>uth's genitals

is also separately carved, and presumably an addition which was not

originally planned. Cleaned by Miss Western of the Department of

Antiquities early in 1964. Mounted on a painted wooden pedestal.

What must bc the group's Victorian pedestal survives in thc basement

store: it is of sicna (flccked mustard yellow) marble of rectangular

plan with canted sides and an arched front panel.

Given in 1937 by Mr Henry Donner (A7?##¢/ RcPo7? (1937), 34).

Placed on loan to the Cecil Jackson Room in the Sheldonian Theatre basement in March 1964. Retrieved and placed on the sill of the

central window of the staircasc to the Upper Galleries of the

Department of western Art in August 1989.

The only record of this sculpture seems to bc the entry in the

A7e»#¢/ Rcporf for 1937 (p. 34) recording it as a work by

Thorvaldsen given by Mr Henry Donncr. It is not by

Thorvaldsen, but by an Italian, or at least by a sculptor

working in Italy, at the same period. The insipid sentiment,

boneless grace, and considerable technical virtuosity arc

typical of 'soulptors such as Tadolini in Rome or of Giovanni-

Maria Bcmr,oni in Milan in the two decades following

Canova's death. The cutting of the marble is in many passages

very fine (for instance in the eaglc's feathers, and the bark of

the trunk), in the manner associated with skilled Italian

craft'snen, but some of the drapery is routine and that which

falls down beside the trunk is obviously designed to provide

another vertical support. The bridge of marble between the

index finger of the youth's left hand and his thigh was

presumably intended to be removed after safe transport from

the sculptor's studio. The support behind his left heel could

however not be dispensed with prudently.


@@174

174. Head of a bishop saint

41.5 cms. (hcighr); 50 cms. (1eligth from top of iiil[rc tt) chest)

Terracotta, pinky orange to beige in colour. The mitrc' is open a[

the top and the head has been clawed hollow fr(nn above. The c(>pe

has been modelled out of a separate piece of clay and this ha's been

rciinforced with i-lay from below to form a solid base. A hole has

bc'en pilshed through this base to join the hollow ln the head There

arc firlng cracks in [hc neck to proper right and, less conspicuously,

ai-rt)ss the beard. There are chips at the rim of the cope to proper

nght and there is a patch of plaster of' Paris in the rim [o proper left.

Bought for f I ,200 from the Arcade Gallery (Paul Wengrao, The

Rt>yal Arcade, 28 Old Bond Street, London Wl, in Dcci'mber 1966

oiit of the George Flood France Fund with a contribution from the

Regional Fund administered by the Victc>ria and Albert Museum.

The work was probably reserved in October. It was registcred on

9 December.

lan Robcrtson wrote to Hugh Wakcficld of the Victoria and

Albert Museum soliciting support for the. purchase of this

terracotta on 25 October 1966, praising the 'subtlety and

distinction' of the modelling which he regarded as

'comparablc witli the quality t>f a painting by the elder

Tiepolo'. I'ublishing it in thc z4#„#¢/ Repoyf for 1966

(p. 47) he considered it as the 'most notewochy' of the five

pieces of sculpture acquired in that year. In this case his

enthusiasm was, it seems, supported by cxpelts in the

field. A letter from Charles Avcry of the Department of

Sculpture at the Victoria and Albert Museum to Ian ljowe on

8 December indicates that the idea that the terracotta was an

eighteenth-century Venetian work came from the Keeper of

his Department, John Pope-Hcnnessy. Avery proposed

Govanni Bonazza (1654-1736) as the artist and cited his

figure of S} Zeeo complcted in 1708 for the altar of st Antonio

in the duomo at Montagnana (C. Scmenzato, 'Giovanni

Bonazza', S¢2grG. G %e%oz¢.c, 2 (1959), 293, fig. 9), but also

pointed to Giuseppe Bcrnardi ('11 Torretto') as a possibility.

Rt)bertson had already mentioned Bonazza in his letter to

Wakcfield in October and the terracotta had been registcred

as probably by him.

It is true that a similar type of bearded saint is found

in works by Bonazza and Bernardi (scc, for the latter,

C. Scmcnzato, 'Giuseppe Bernardi detto fl Torretto', A#G

Pc%c£¢,12 (1958),17z pl.196), but the style of sketchy

modc[1ing with its deliberately smudged trcatmcnt of the

features, the piiptl of the bi'shop's right eye being almost

indistiiiguishable, the beard expiring amid the lightly scribbled

ornamelit of the cope, the opening of the lips left as a torn

line, ''.uggcst'' a sculptor influenced by the f/%7%¢}o of such

late nincteenth-and early twcnticth-century sculptors as

Rodln, or, still inorc, Medardo Rosso. The intro''pectivc, even

gho'Stl}' mood sec|ns modern and so docs the whole shape of

thl' bu''t which is dcsigned to give an appantional, floatlng,

l'haracter impossible to relate to a socle. (On arrival in the

'\luseum the head was supported on an ebonized wooden

'talld t'rom which it was emancipated on 4 January 1967 by

Mohanlmed Sa|eh, dunng which operation a nilt and a bolt,

'evell inches long, were removed from the back-as recorded

" a note b}J Hugh Macandrew in the Register.)

ITAI,TAN scul,r>TUREs. UNNAMED ARTlsT

Doubts conc'cming the antiquity of' the terracotta are

reinforced by the thc'rmo-Iumincscclicc dating of sample.'

taken from the head in April 1974 and October 1986 bv Mr's

Dorcen Stoncham of the Oxford University Research

Laboratory for Archaeology and the History of Art which

indica.ted that the piccc was fired less than 150 years ago (ref.

81 -in-62 and 38 I -y-33). The probability of the work being

modern docs not make it a forgery. It might bc a historical

portrait in much the same spirit as Gemito's C¢¢z/er V(No.

38),. and, considered as such, it certainly possesses genuine

mcrlt.


@@175

Unassociated with a Named Sculptor or Craftsman

(Pediments, Frames, Knockers, Handles, Ijockplates)

FITTINGS IoR FURNITURF, AND DOORS

175. Ornamental pediment

involving cupids and two putti

supported by scrolls

14.2 cms. (height); 17.8 cms. (width of base moulding)

Bronze, with fire-gilding won in parts to reveal a warm orange

brown natural patina (most obvious on projecting kncc of

uppermost cupid). Ij{)st-wax cast. The reverse is hollowed. There

arc. distinct file marks in the lower part of the reverse. The circular

mterstice'' of the dcsign-six lil all, of two sizes-arc drilled out of

the metal. There is a crack in the scroll on the proper nght side of

the relief. '8.1114 . G' is painted in white in the hollow reverse of

the uppermost cupid.

Given bv C. D. E. Fortnum on 15 November 1889. 8.1114 in his

ca[alogu-es. 'Bought 10/-', acct>rding to his notebook catalogue,

without provenance or date but after 8.1106 (No.176) and

probably in the later l880s to Judge from the number and the

manner of its insertion.

See No. 176.


@@176

176. Ornamental pediment

involving two winged putti, a mask,

and a vase of flowers

13 cms. (height excluding ring); 15.8 cms. (length of base)

Bronze, with gilding (possibl}J fire-gilding, po'ssibly a vanish) much

won to reveal a dull pale brown natural patina. I.{)st-wax, cast. The

rcvcrsc is irregularly hollowed. The circular interstices of the

design-six in all, of oiic size-arc' drilled out ttf' the metal. '8.-

106. G' is painted in white on the reverse of the vase

Given by C. D. F„ Fortnum on 15 November 1889. 8. 1106 in his

catalogues. No provenancc or d<ite of acqui'sition given, but

presumably acquired after the compilation, in 185z of his

preliminary catalogue, in which it is nor included.

The pedimcnt is of vcry similar character to No. 175. The

chfldren's faces have the same r(>und eyes and dimpled chins

and curls-suggesting the type so popular in Venice in the

late sixteenth century (scc Nos. 82,188-9, 225). They are

also modclled in the same way, as those in No.175, with

elegance and naturalism sacrificed to the convenicncc of easily

cut out or drilled out edgcs or apertures. The fact that the

three putti in No. 175 are equipped with quivers and the uppermost with a bow (coiifused with the scrollwork)

indicates that they represent Cupid and two companions

whcrcas in this case the winged putti could be angels. This

pediment unlike No. 175 is also fitted with a suspension ring

and the base moulding has projections with screw holes.

Pediments of this size and character scrved to adorn both

secular and sacred (tbjects: mirrors, bronze plaquettes,

especially paxcs, Liinoges enamel portraits (there is one in the

Nelson Atkins Mu'soum, Kansas City), or even the three

visible faces of a wall clock. A Venetian t]rigin is suggcsted

not only by the childrcn's faces but by the similar character

t>f the triangiilar pierced ttrnaments t>n the sides of the gilt

bronze monstrancc for the staurotheca of Hcnrv of Flanders

composed of fragments of the True Cro'ss in the Trea'sury of

St Mark's ill Vciiicc. This mon'strani'e \\/'as probably made in

1618 when the reliquary was placed on the a_ltar of the Holy

Sacrament in the Basilica (scc H. R. Hahnloser (ed.), J/ fGj.o7"

ed¢. LS¢7¢ M¢yco, ii (Florcncc,1971), no.140). These tirnamcnts

not only involvc cherubim with heads liki' rhc putti and very

similar scrolls l)ut the casting i's rough <1nd the trcatmcnt of

the apcrtures identical to t.hat in the pediments. The backplate

of a Hanukkah lamp in the Victoria and Albert Museum

(M. 418-1956) which is datablc on armorial evidcncc to the

carly sevcntccnth ccntiiry is also in a very similar srylc and

handling.


@@177

177. Oval frame of strapwork

involving cherubim and angels

30.5 cms. (height); 23.0 cms. (width)

Bronze with a chocolate pariii<i, fire-gilt on edges of tlie strapwork

(but by some means which in\Jt)lved the application ot'gold leaf, for

the distinctive overlaps of the leaves arc' cvident on the edges ort-he

strapwork top right and lower left). The metal is torn and cut at

the juni'tion of the wings of'the lower i-hcrub. Moiinted against ri'd

\,cl\7Ct.

Ijclit by C. D. E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888, given later in the

same year. 8.1050 in his caralogucs. I'urchased for fl5 at the sale.

of the collection of Matthew Uziclli at Chrisric's, lonclon,17 April

1861,lot 670, using 'Whitehcad' (prc'sumably the dealer T. M.

Whitehead) as his agent; previously in the Rousscl Collection.

Fortniim, \'Jho was sparing with his superlatives, described

this simply as 'vcry t)cautiful in design and cxccution'. Hc

considered it as prttbably Florcntinc of about 1570, And also

iioted that a cup or shell for holy water had bccn detached

from below the lower cheriib. He was repeating the views of

J. C. Rt)bimtin given in his (,'¢f#/og%c a/£4c V¢rz.a"f Worfej

of Art Forming the collection of Matthew Uz;ielli, I,sq. of

Hanover Lodye, Regent's Park (TA)ndon, \860)' no. 605)'

cxccpt that Robinson thought that it might bc either Venetian

or Floreiitilie. Fortnum supposed that a devotional painting

would have filled the franc-a mirror, he noted, had 'recently'

bccn fixed in place. The heraldic device (crest or badge) of

an caglc with open wings, its breast bitten by the serpent it

holds in its talons, which appears as a relief where the

strapwork rises up into an ogec crown, and the motto 'SF,Mr'F,R

ARDENTIUS' chisclled into the metal, have iiot been

idcntified-Michael Maclagan points out that the motto is

not in Dielitz and he has not traced it elsewhere. It might,

however, bc an imprcsa. The 'smaller Talman volumc' in the

Ashmolean includes a number of frame designs of a

comparable but not very similar character, notably one

(p. I 17) attributed [o Naldini, with figures incorporated in

'¢trapwork (probably for a coat of arms), and one (p. I 14)

attributed to Federigo Zuci'aro involving strapwork and a

cherub's head (K. T. Parker, C¢f¢/og#G a/Jf#/z.¢" D7r¢ty¢.72gf

in the A§hmolean Mttseum (Oxford,1%6). r\o. 755).


@@178

178. Door fixture in the form of a

lion's head roaring, for the

suspension of a handle or knocker

13 cms. (height); 12 cms. (width)

Bronze with a dull green and brown natural patina and patches of

verdigris, rubbed in small areas at the edges to reveal a .yellow metal.

Hollow behind. '8 / -54/e' in white paint on intenor with a

small square paper label placed diagonally with blue plinted border

inscribed '8 / 1054' in ink.

Ijent by C. D. E. Fortnum on 7 January 1888 and given later in the

saLine year. 8. 1054 in his catalogues. 'Bought in Romc' according

to his notebook catalogue, with no date, but presumably after the

compilation in 1857 of his preliminary catalogue, in which it is not

included.

The handle or knocker would have taken the form of a ling

passed throuch the loop joining the lion's lower jaw with the

projection below. Fortnum catalogued this 'vigorously

modelled' fixture as of the early sixteenth century, but it

could easily be later in date. He noted that it was inspired by

ancient Roman art and speculated that it might even bc

antique,describingthepatinaasthatwhichcomesfromburial.


@@179

179. Door-knocker in the shape of

a lyre, decorated with a half-length

woman restraining two lions by their

manes

28.5 cms. (height); 23.7 cms. (width); 15.3 cms. (width of scrolls

at top); 4.I cms. (nipple to nipple)

Bronze with a dark chocolatc brown natural patina, palest where

most handled. Very heavy, lost-wax, cast. The head and arms of the

figure and the back legs of the lions are solid; the torsos of the figure

and the lions arc open behind. A square piece of iron, chamfcred

at the top, is inserted as I-he knocker's hammer. A small patch of

metal has bccn inscrted in the back of.the lion to proper left. There

havc been many blows and dashes to the surface, but most detail

has appdrcn[ly been reproduced from the model. '8 / -96. /G'

is painted in white on the inside of proper right scroll at the top.

1,ent to the Museum by C. D. E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888 and

given by him later in the same year. 8. 1096 in his catalogues.

Boiight in 1876 'from the Late Miss Ellen Rigby' (cf. No.181)

according to the large catalogue, for flo according to the notebook

catalogue.

This type of door-knocker cxists in many versions including

the following: Bayerischcs Nationalmuseum, Munich (see

catalogue of that collection by H. R. Weihrauch (Munich,

1956),108, no.132); Bischoffsheim Collection, now

untraLced (W . Bode, Italian Bronz,e Stat;uettes of the

Rc#4}¢.ff¢#cc, ii (Ijondon 1908), no. CLXXV); Staatliche

Musccn, Berlin-Dahlem (5045; see L. Planiscig, Vc#cz¢.¢72Zj.c¢c

Bildhauer der Renaissance (Vienna., Bchin,1921)' 57z

pl. 633); Victoria and Albert Museum, I,ondon (1592-1855);

Meycr-Ilschen Collection, Stuttgart-Bad Cannstatt (cited by

Wcihrauch, loc. cit.). Another version was with the Arcade

Gallery in 1962. Fortnum knew only of the Victoria and

Albcrt version which he regarded as the 'fellow' of his own

(that is as having originated on the other valve of the same

palace door). There are many variations both in the general

shape (if the models were taken from the same moulds they

would have been roiigh and altered in each case) and in the

handling which is in all cases bold. For instance, the Victoria

and Albert Museum's version, that in Berlin, and that in Paris

are all tighter in composition than the Ashmolean version

wlth less space between the woman's shoulders and the arms

of the lyre and with less space above her head. The scroll

projecting at the figure's lower abdomen is rather more salient

in the Ashmolean version than in the Munich or Victoria and

Albert versions and it is diffcrcnt in form-there is a sort of

flat strapwork in the Berlin version. The latter version also

has an ornanicntal comb in the figure's hair and has a bearded

bacchic mask at the top between the scrolls of the lyre

concealing the ring hinge.

Thcrc exist nineteenth-century copies of this type of

knocker: one is in the Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore (no.

54.4, bought from Sehgmann, Rey and Co., New York,

1917), and another in the Art Institute, Chicago (1973.375).

In both cases the detail, although in some respects clearer

(especially the oriiament on the scrolls which is at best

smudged in some of the versions cited above), is not chiselled

and the reverses are obviously sand-cast and much less crude

than is typical of Renaissance knockers.

There is a related type of door-knocker also in the shape

of a lyre and with lions climbing down each scroll arm, their

ta.ils curling around it, their front paws supporting a projecting

shell handle, and their heads turned up-but with a wholc-length

figure standing between thein and not touching them.

The figurc is a nude Hercules, his left hand on his hip, his

right brandishing a club, in the examples in the Fitzwilliam

Museuin, Cambridge (M29-1917) and in the Rijksmuseum

(\] . 1j=c:owe:hocrg' Beeldhottwkttnst in bet Rijksmusettm

(Amsterdam, 1973), 38z no. 657), but is more commonly

a draped female. Planiscig, illustrating two of the latter (one

once in the Pierpt>nt Morgan Collection, inscribed 'GIo

ANTO TAVANI', now untraced, and one in the

Kunstgewcrbemuseum, Berlin, noted the close relationship

in the figure style between these and the work of the Vcnctian

sculptor Tiziano Aspetti (op. cit. above, 576-z pls. 632-3).

The figure in the Morgan version is indced derived from a

sta.tuette of Judith (known in many versions, among thc. best

being the cast in Sir Brinsley Ford's collection, that in the

Musco Civico, Padua, and that sold at Christic's, Ijondon,

5 July 1988, lot 83), which is attributed to Aspetti on account

of its resemblance to his signed statuettes of Char¢.ty and

rcowpcr¢»cc (dated 1593) on the rail of the high altar of the

Santo in Padua. It is possible that Aspetti, having invented

one figure, would then repeat it with little variation for a

different purpose, but such an adaptation is also probable in

a lesser artist, indeed an artisan founder such as were probably

responsible for the design as well as the casting of all but the

most extraordinary knockers. But if the design of this 'very

harmonious and well-compacted model', as Fortnum justly

described it, is by a leading sculptor then Aspctti is certainly

a likely candidate.

This type of knocker may well have been traditional in

Venice. The most important source for our lenowledgc of the

knockers there is the set of forty-five drawings made by the

Flemish artist Giovanni Grevembroch in 1758 of 'Battori,

Batticoli e Battioli in Venezia' as it is headed-published in

facsimile in G. 8. Brusa as R¢cco/f¢ d¢. B¢#¢.£or¢. ¢ Vc7¢cz¢.a in

1879 (the only copy in Britain is in the National Art Library,

Pressmark 204.b.26). No. 5 in this scrics, located at Palazzo

Ijongo al Servi in Rio dclla Sensa, has a full-length figure of

Hercules between a pair of downward chmbing lions on lyrc-formed

scrolls. No. 26, located at t:he Monastero di S.

Zaccaria, has similarly arranged lions but with less torsion in

their poses, suggesting an older pattern. Nt]. 2z located at

the Monastcro di S. Giuseppe, is similar to no. 5, but with a

full-length standing female figure. No. 28, located at Ijevi dal

Banco, has a nude boy between less twisted lions (and no shell

handle). Nos. 29 and 30 'dci Belilios' and 'dei Bendana' are

similar to no. 5, the latter with a Bacchus, as is no. 32, at

Palazzo Garzoni a San Samuele, whcrc the full-length figure

is a personification of Hope, and no. 39 at Casa Ijoredan

a 'S. Maria Nova' where it is a nude male hero. Half-length

female figures are also found on Venetian knockers

recorded by this source-for instance no. 16, at Casa Diedo a S. Giovanni in Olco, where, however, the figure is really a

mermaid whose split fish legs curl up to form the arms of the

lyre. There is, however, no reason to suppose that these types

6f knocker were only made at Venice. A pair of lions on a

lyre-shapedknockerwiubefound,forinstance,inanexample

recorded on a palace in Bologna (see Gaetano M '-i;;6;iri*eFbronzid'arte-nell?porte'degl'ie.d_¢jfc.:.I:Bologna archetti,

(Bologna,1969), 21, fig.16), although admittedly a

Bologncse knocker could have been made in Venice.


@@180

180. Door-knocker formed of

winged monsters and a grotesque

mask

24.2 cms. (height); 23.3 cms. (width, head t(t head)

Bronze with natural dark chocolate patina, paler in more salient parts

(eg. foliate beard and hair and noses of monsters). Heavy, lost-wax,

cast, open behind. A circular piece of iron is inserted as the

knocker's hammer. An iron cross-bar, concealed by the binding of

the tails, is designed to fit a ring hinge. The linear detail of hair,

furrowed brow, and feathers is reproduced from rough and rapid

work in the wax model and retains much burr. '8 / -95 / G'

painted in white on the rcversc. A blue-bordcred square paper label

inscribed '8 1095' in ink is also attached to the revcrsc.

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum on 7 January 1888, and presented later

in the same year. 8. 1095 in his catalogucs. 'Bought in london in

1849', according to the large catalogue; 'at a Salc' there at that date

and for 2 guincas, according to the earlier notebook catalogue; 'in

Ijondon in 1850' according [o the preliminary catalogue compiled

in 1857 (p. 45); it is presumably the 'smallcr bronzc knocker' on

which hc spent 2 guineas before 1851 according to his

'Memorandum of prices pald'.

No other versions of this knocker have been recorded. The

lack of rhythm in the composition and the awkward

compilation of pa'rts-wings, fish tails, lions' paws, human

heads-is hard to match in other inventions of this sort,

however grotesque. The basic scheme may bc matched in at

least one knocker known to have bccn on a Venetian

Renaissance palace door by the mid-eightccnth century: no.

34 in the collection of drawings of such knockers made by

Grevembroch (see No. 179) shows one at Palazzo Grimani a

San Luca, composed of a pair of dolphins, their curling tans

bound together at the top, and supporting below, betwccn

their heads, a grotesque mask with foliate projections. There

is also some similarity with a type of knocker consisting of a

mermaid and a triton curling round with a grimacing mask

below (Metropolitan Museum, New York,17-190-2096;

Victoria and Albert Museum 555-1877; and K. Pechstcin,

Bronzen and Pldeetten, Staatliche Mttseen prettB ischer

J{#/£"r4cJ¢.fz (Berlin,1968),15, pl. 4).

Fortnum regarded this knocker as a 'finc vigorous model

roughly but artistically executed and cast from the wax' and

catalogued it as north Italian and of the late fifteenth or carly

sixteenth century-but in his notebook catalogue simply as of

the first half of the sixtccnth century. The grotesque ornament

is more easily associated with work of the second half of the

sixteenth century and could bc of a still later date.


@@181

181. Door-knocker in the form of

Neptune accompanied by a palr of

hippocanps

45.5 cms. (height); 30.I cms. (width)

Bronze with a dark brown mtural patina worn to yellow on the

noses of the hippocamps and on the .shell handle. Heavy, lost-wax,

cast, solid in the ends of the tails of the hippocamps, in the head

and limbs of Neptune, but hollow in the god's chest which is open

behind. A chaplet pin remains in his chest; there is a hole where the

pin was passed through the metal on the other side. A piecc. of iron

(4.5 cms. square) is inser[ed as the knocker's hammer. Much of the

surface, and Neptunc's flesh especially, has been extensively [ooled

with small scratchy lines, apparently in the metal, but the equine

parts of the hippocamps are tcxtured with small circles which look

as if they have been impressed into the soft wax model with an aniilar

punch (in a few areas the cleaiiing of the metal after casting has

removed this texture). The bold lines defining wings, hair, mane,

and the like also look as if they are cur into the soft model rather

than the hard metal. There arc small perforations in the chest of

Neptune and above the nose of the hippocamp to proper left. There

is a threaded insertion for a missing extension to the trident handle.

'8 / - 97 / G' painted in white t>n the reverse of the tall of the

hippocamp to proper right.

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum on 7 January 1888 and presented later

in the same year. Numbered 1097. 'Bought from Miss Ellen RIgb}''

according to the large catalogue, for i.10 in 1876 according to the

notebook catalogue, having been bought in ljondon 'about 1846'

by her father George RIgby (see also No. 179).

Fortnum was aware of another version of this type of knocker.

It was one said to have been on the door of Ca Pcsaro in

Venice, 'taken by Edward Chency' and (in 1883 when

Fortnum was compiling his catalogue entry) still in the

possession of the Cheney family. According to Fortnum this

was the same one that was reproduced by Matthew Digby

Wyatt in his Mcf#/ Wo7.le ¢72¢ ¢.£r 4#¢.i.fG.c Dcjzj% (I,ondon,

1852), pl. z as from the Pisani Palace and 'rcgarded as the

handsomest in Vcnice' (ibid. 73). When exhibited at the

Burlington Fine Arts Club in 1879, however, the Cheney

knocker was said to have come from the 'Comer palace'.

Numerous other versions are now known, many of them

modern. Fortnum observed, in tracing his back to about

1846, that this was '1ong before the modern casts were

fabricated for salc'. Consulting Grcvcmbroch's drawings of

old Venetian knockers made in the mid-eigh[ccnth century

(for which see No. 179) w€ find that examples were then to

bc seen on Palazzo Gradenigo at Santa Giustina and at

Palazzo Lezze alla Mi'scricordia (his nos. 1 and 2). He also

iuustrates one with hippocamps and shell handle at the

Monastcro dclla Cclestia (no. 37) from which a Neptune had

perhaps been dctached.

The following list of versions of this type of knocker is

certainly not completi', but is longer than the fullest previously

prbhished (I . Baloch' Katalog der avsldndischen Bildwerhe de5

Museums der bildenden Ki4n§te in Budapest (BudaLpcst, L975) ,

i.164-5, no. 213). It is arranged alphabetically by location.

Alnwick Castle, Northumbcrland; Antwerp, vaii Beuningen

246

Collectit>n (P47oc7cz.;x;, 4 (1949),171); Baltimore, Waltcrs Art

Gallery (514.3); formerly Berlin, Oscar Huldschinsky

Ct>llcction (Berlin sale of 1928, lot 91, cited by Balogh,

op. cit.); Boston, Gardncr Museum (C. Vcrmeule, W. Cahn,

aLnd R. HaLdiey. Scttlpture Of the lsabella Stewart Gardner

A4z4fc%% (Boston,1977),155, no.194); Budapest, Museum

of I-'inc Art (Balogh, op. cit., no. 213); Budapest, Adolph

Kohner Collection (Ernst Museum Aukci6i, XI,VIIl, no. 313,

cited by Balogh, op. cit.); Cainbridgc, Fogg Art Museum

(1953.41, Fo;zg A7¢ A4#fc#7% A7G7¢G¢¢/ RGPo77 (1952-3), 14);

Chicago, Art Institute (1950-1171 ; no. 34 in 477 a/£¢e

Rc„¢¢'fr¢"cc Cgr¢/£f7#c7? (Fogg Art Museum, May 1937), when

in Jellinek Collection, Buffalo); Detroit, Institute of Art

(47.141; Ba4//c£G.7G, 32/I (1952-3), 6); formerly Durhan,

N. Carolina, Duke University (sold Sotheby's, New York,

30 May 198z lot 68); Edinburgh, Royal Scottish Museum

(1877.20.41); London, British Museum (H. Weihrauch,

Ez#-oP¢2.fc4c 87'o72zcff¢J#c#c7¢ (Brunswick,1967), pl. 184);

Milan, Mylius Collection (A. Pettorclli, I/ ¢7io7?2;a c ¢./ 7i¢7#c

7zc//'¢77e dcco7r¢fz.t7¢ ¢.f#/g.¢7e¢ (Milan,1926), fig.181); formerly

Munich, Marczell von Ncmcs C,ollection (Munich sale of

16-19 June 1931, vol. ii, lot 413, pl. 91, cited Balogh, op.

cit.); Munich, Bayerisches Nationalmuseum (65.132, in

reserve); formerly New York, William Randolph Hearst

Collection (Hammer Galleries (1941), 58); I'adua, Musco

Civico (8. Candida, 'Un brt>nzo di Alcssandro Vittoria',

P7iofpe#¢.y¢, 28 (1982), 79-82, fig. 4); Paris, formerly

Bischoffshcim Collection, now untraced); formerly S[

Petersburg, Botkine Collection (catalogue of 1911, pl. 46,

cited Balogh op. cit.); Trieste, Civici Musei di Storia e d'Artc

(Candida, op. cit., fig. 5); formerly Venice, Antichita Pietro

Scarpa (B„7i/;7¢;gro7¢ A4¢g¢z¢.»c, Supplement (June 1972),

pl. XX); Vcnicc, Museo Civico Correr, version (¢) (Candida,

op. cit., fig. 2); version (¢) (no. 215); version (c) (no.1179,

formerly Conte Cernazzi, Udine); Venice, Palazzo Loredan,

Santo Stcfano (Candida, op. cit., fig.I); Venice, Palazzo

Pisani (see Wyatt, op. cit., also 1,. Moretti in I P¢.f¢73£. 4Zz.

Sent:o Stefano e la opera d'arte del loro Palaz,z,o (Vehicc' n.d.)'

17z pl. 50); also two replicas of the same stolen about a

decade ago from the Palazzo Pisani doors, one rcproduced

Co#72rty L¢/c (12 July 1962), 90; Venice, Palazzo Clary,1397

Zattcre, Consulat G6n€ral de F'rance (Candida, op. cit.,

fig. 6); formerly Vienna, private collection (auction of 1928

cited by Balogh, op. cit); formerly Vienna, Castiglioni

Collection; Vienna, Kunsthistoriches Museum (no. 5973;

Weihrauch, op. cit., pl. 183).

Modern casts were known to Fortnum, as wc have seen,

and the versions recently stolen from l'alazzo Pisani were

acknowledged as replicas. Among those listed above that I

have seen, those in Boston, Detroit, and (formerly) Durham

imprcssed me either as very inferior late casts or as poor

ninetccnth-century imitations, while that on Palazzo Clary,

Venice, looks like a modern replica. Variations on the model

are also known. In one of these Neptune, accompanied by

lions like those in No.179, is sticking his trident into the

rump of one and stroking the other (an example,

unnumbered, is displayed in the Musco Nazionale di Palazzo

Venczia in Rome and another is illustrated in T. G. Jackson'S

D¢/7„#f¢.a (Oxford, 1884), 268).

Sinccatleastthecarlyyearsofthisccnturyknocker'softhis

type have been associated witli the name of the Vcnctian

''culptor Alcssandro Vittoria, but even the best of them (that

in Palazzo Loredan, Venice) has some clumsiness which

would be unllkely in a futhful reproduction of a model by

him. Weihrauch (op. cit.) fllustratcs a terracotta Neptune in

the British Museum attributing it to Vittoria. The head

possesses a similar f"7?.4.G./¢.£¢ and the nght arm is similarly

raised, but the anatomy ls more correct and the modelling

lnore fluent than in the equivalent figures on the knockers.

To describe the knockers as Style of vittoria is not

unreasonable but there is no evidence that hc had assistants

engaged in turning oiit door furniture, and we know that he

did not cast his own figures (for the indcpcndent founders

employedforhisS£ScG¢f££.¢#'sce777cGc#¢#jo/Vc7¢£cc(Royal

Academy, 1983), 388, S. 37-ntry by M Ijcithe-Jasper)

The subject would seem to lllustrate the Q#oJ £27o from

Virgil's 4G#c¢.d-the moment when in Book One the irate

god of the ocean calms the storm which, urged by Juno, the

winds had stirred up to destroy the Trojan flcct. Neptune

utters the words 'Quos F,got ('Whom 1') of a sentence he is

too angry to complete. The subject was extremely popular in

bronze sculpture of the late sixteenth and early seventeenth

centuries both north and south of the Alps: among the most

notable groups are that in the Cleveland Museum of Aft

(74.273)andthoscintheWaltersArtGalJery,Baltimore,

(54.4? and 54.244l-both reproduced in E. P. Bowron,

P:#ji=^n.:e\B,r]on¥:;r'th.e_W;I_te;;-i;-ia;;e;i;i;:;;e

(Baltimore,Md.,1978),47and55)andthatsoldatSotheby's,

London, 8-9 December 1988, lot 104, while the most

famous of all is the superb bronze in the Vlctoria and Albert

Museum (A. 99-1910), long attributed to Vlttoria, but

recentlypublishedbyAmthonyRadcliffeasperhapsby

VNLpn=te'=nzp°f±='n.t:^==€_rTec'tiT6his-¢=±i:=tir:='.£eYs?iffionhc

Neptune Fountain in the Palazzo deua Signona, Florence

(B#z/¢.#2rfo# "¢g¢z¢.#G (Dec 1988), 932).

The quality of the Neptune knockers vanes greatly. The

Ashmolcan'sisnotoneofthcbcst-'thcworkmanship',

=soDtte=€ua#vcno{ntchepd=±::i^s[=Lt±==_coirs'e':'i=d:=i#=:ou==±pcriin8, especially of the hands, the lower abdomen, and breasts, one

ofwhichisoddlymergedwiththeshoulder,isbad.Among

the more visible of the versions listed those in the British

Museum,theCorrer(¢),andViennaarecertalnlyfarsupenor,

although also fuu of faults. The type of finish also varies and

1havefoundnothinglikcthetexturingonthcAshmolean's

bronze in any other version. Thcrc arc nilmerous vanations

lnthecharacterofthetrident(usuallystumpy,oftcnbent)

andthcpositionoftheheadsofthehippocanps.Thcwings

of the hippocamps are unusually soft and rounded in the

Ashmolean'sversion;theyarcusuallyspikyalthoughthose

oftheversioninPalazzoljoredan,Vcnicc,areuniqucin

resembling spiney dorsal fins Arms bchmd Ncptune's head,

asinthcAshmolcan'sversion,arcnotunusual-f.Ijondon,

BntishMuseum,Budapest;Correr(¢).Theyneverseemwell

lntegratedintothccompositionandaresometimcsmanifestly

addedaftercasting(asintheBritishMuseum'svcrsion).The

arms in the Ashmolean's ver'sinn-(blank) thrcc bends

(blank),withacoronetwithsevenpcarlsandanamplc

FITTINGS FOR FURNITURE AND DOORS

mantle-are hard to idcntify without tincture but could bc,

Foftnumobserved,ofthcBianchettiandGhislieriofBologna,

or of the Bandini of Florence-but Michael Maclagan notes

that there are numerous families using this shield, but

relatively few with a right to a coronet.


@@182

@@183

182 and 183. Pair of furniture

handles in the form of scrolls,

suspended from a lion mask,

terminating in dogs, an eight-pointed

star between their front

Paws

5.8 cms. (height of each handle); 5.7 cms. (width of each handle);

3.9 cms. (height of lion mask); 2.7 cms. (width of lion mask)

Bronze, fire-gilt. The gilding is tarni'shed in parts and in others is

worii to expose a brown natural patina. Ijost-wax casts, slightly

hollowed behind. Fixed to the centres of the arched panels in the two doors of a small nineteenth-century cabinet of pale mahogany

(68.6 cms. high; 43. I cms. wide, 35 cms. broad).

Bequeathed by C. D F,. Fortnum in 1899. 8.1056 and 8. 1057 in

his catalogues. 'Bt. Florence'~prcsumably after 1857 when his

preliminary catalogue, in which they are not included, was compiled

Attached by him to the cabinet in which he kept his collection of'

rings, which cabinet, by accident, has remained in the care of the

Department of Antiquities.

The handles were catalogued by Fortnum as Italian of the

sixteenth century-they are surely of the second half of the

century and perhaps of the carly s€ventcenth century and are

likely to have been made in Florence (whcrc they wcrc

acquired) in which city volutes of elegant form ornamented

with ovcr[apping scales or coins wcrc much favoured. The

dogs and star may well have been suggested by the G.7%P7'cj¢

of the family for which they were made.


@@184

@@185

184 and 185. Pair of door-handles

in the form of busts of Bacchus and

Ariadne (B¢cc¢#s only traced)

12.8 cms. (height)

Bronze of a dark brown to black patina. Heavy, lost-wax, cast.

Hollow behind but the head solid (or filled). An iron prong inserted

into the rear of the chest has been broken off.

Given by C. D. E. Fortnum on 15 November 1889 Nos.1062 and

1063 in his catalogues. 'Bought in Florence'.

Dated by Fortnum to the second half of the sixteenth century

and described as 'coarse'-the coarseness is not untypical of

much routine ancient Roman work and it is possible that the

Ariadne has in the past been mistaken for a genuine Roman

work. It is curious that in Fortnum's prelimimry catalogue of

1857 hc lists a male head handle without a companion and

observes that it is of fine execution (4z no.12), but there is

no unpalred male head handle in his subsequent catalogues.



@@186

@@187

186 and 187. Pair of door-handles

in the form of identical busts of

laurel-crowned men in Roman

armour

10.3 cms. (height)

Bronze of a brown natural patina with traces of black va.rnish. Ijost-wax

casts, hollow bchind but the heads solicl (or filled). Thrcadcct

iron prongs are inserted in the back of'each licck. The surface.s have

been roughly chiselled. In one case the bronze is dented on the

iiose. There is a firing crack across the lower neck of'one and a

portion of bronze is missing from the proper left shoulder of the

other.

Given by C. D E. Fortnum on 15 November 1889 Nos.1073 and

1074 in his catalogucs. Not in his preliminary catalogue of 185z

presumably acquired after that date.

Dated by Ft]rtnum to the sixteenth century, they arc 'coarsc

work', as he also observed, and could have been made at any

time in the sixteenth, seventeenth, or eighteenth century.


@@188

@@189

188 and 189. Pair of door-handles

in the form of male and female

bacchic busts

11.3 cms. (height of male); 11.4 cms. (height of female)

Bronze of light infcri(x alloy with a natural chocolate patina. Hollow,

probably lost-w.ix, casts, open behind. Iron prongs are inscrted in

sockets behind the necks. Small screw holes at lowc'r edges of chests

(torn in one case) Small holes at both sides t]f'both chests (possibly

from chaplet pins). The half on the back of the female head is

unmodclled.

Given by C. D. E. Fortnum on 15 November 1889. 8.1071 and

8. 1072 in his catalogues. Probably the 'Head of Bacchus' and

'Anadne the companion' dated e1570, nos.10 and 11 on p 47 of

his preliminary catalogue compiled in 1857.

These liandlcs wcrc dated by Fortnum to the sixtccnth

century. The original models may well have been Venetian

of the late sixteenth century since they rescmblc the curly-haired

types much favoured in the decorative bronzework

associated with Roccatag[iata (see No. 82). However, these

casts arc 'coarsely executed', as Fortnum also observed, and

could have been made at any time in the succeeding ccnturies.

The male head is among the types of handle still made in

Venice by the Valese Foundry (Madonm dell'Orto 3535) and

rctalled at their shop (793 Calle Fiub€ra, S. Marco) for 155,000 lire. This foundry commenced bu'siness in Venice in

1913 but no doubt took its models from earlier foundries.

Modern examples may bc sccn on many dt)ors in Venice (for

example on those of the offices of Adriatica, 7jatterc 1413),

but ancient oncs are rare~those on the late sixteenth or early

seventeenth-century vestment cupboards of the Sagrestia

Grande of s. St€fano (of which seven were in place in 1989)

appear to be original. AIi cxamplc of the male bust together

with a 'similar female model are included in a display of such

'testinc decorativc' in the Musco Davia Bargellini in Bologna.

(These are published in R. Grandi (ed.), A4% \Indusinal;eGalleriaDaviaBargellini('Bhogrra,L987')'2+2- jGo C,G.7;co d'A7%

13, no. 163, entry by R. d'inico, suggesting that they are

of Bolognese manufacture: they are the fifth from left in the

middle row of the upper illustration and third from right in

the top row in the lower illustration.) What appears to be a

version of the male bust is in the Heinz Schneidcr Collection •(:ii:ir.W.rxom.Renaissancep!on?esf:or'Phio'neo!l\ect_io_ns

(Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, Ohio,1975), no.

125). A slightly larger variant of this, but .better modelled

and more crisply finished, is in the Victona and Albcrt

Museum (reserve, A.11-1944). Nos. 5735, 5736, 573z

5738, 5739, and 5741-1859 in the same museum are of very

similar character but with drapery in place of fruit swags, as

is another handle in the Schneidcr Collection (Wixom,

op. cit., no. 123). Such handles are also very common in the

sale-rooms but are seldom illustrated.


@@190

@@191

190 and 191. Pair of door-handles

in the form of identical bald male

Moorish heads, rising from chests

cut in a scroll shape

8.7 cms. (height)

Bronze, with red varnish deteriorated to black and worn to rc\Jeal

metal with a' natural greeny-brown patina (miich more worn in one

case). Lost-w{ix c{ist, open behind, with projections, integrally cast,

with rhreaded perforations.

Given by C. D. E. Fortnum on 15 November 1889. Nos. 1066 and

1067 in his catalogues. tBought in Italy', presumably after 1857

when the preliminary catalogue, in which they are not included, was

compiled.

Formum dated these to the sixteenth century and commented

that they were of 'good work'. The exotic taste is more

suggestive of the seventeenth or eighteenth centuries. A

somewhat similar bald Moor with big cars, a frown, and

terminated at the neck with an undulating hne serves as a

handle to the front door of No. 67 Via dcgli A]fani in Florence

(noted autumn of 1987).


@@192

@@193

192 and 193. Pair of door-handles

in the form of identical, nearly bald,

male heads with moustaches, rising

from drapery

9.2 cms. (height)

Bronze, of natural pale greeny brown patina. Lost-wax cast, hollow

behind, with integrally cast bars across back (one with a threaded

brass prong attached to it). One handle (of slightly darker colour)

had a patch inserted on top of the head. There are circular plugs in

both necks.

Given by C. D. E. Fortnum on 15 November 1889. Nos 1064 and

1065 in his catalogues. 'Bought in Italy'. Not in his preliminary

catalogue of 1857.

Fortnum dated these to the sixteenth century and commented

that they were of 'good work'. The oriental features are more

suggestive of thc exotic fashions of the seventeenth or

eighteenth centuries. A pair of moustached and pigtailed

Chinamcn of sinrilar character but in rococo surrounds serve

as handles to the doors of No. 29 Via Ricasoli in Florence

(noted autumn 1987). Very similar handles arc still cast by at

least one Florentine foundry, that of Enzo and Rcnato

Rafanclli, who sell them for 50,000 lire each at their showroom

in Via dcl Sole. Similar but miniature heads sometimes serve

as handles in ornate early eighteenth-century Italian cabinets.

FITTINGS FOR FURNITURF, AND DOoRS

194 and 195. Pair of door-handles

in the form of a male bust portrait

'en n6glig6', one the reverse of the

other

9.8 cms. (height)

Bronze or brass, natural yellow patina with the remains of oil gilding.

Lost-wax cast, open behind. Rust}J iron prongs arc fitted into thc'

bronze at the bat-k of each neck. '8 / rio / e' and '8 / nil /

G', arc painted in white on the reverses, also on one revcrsc there

is a square blue bordered paper label placed diagonally inscribed in

ink '8 / 1060,.

Given by C. D. E. Fortnum on 15 November 1889. Nos.1060 and

1061 in his catalogues. Bought in Florciice for £2, presumably after

1857 when his preliminary catalogue, in which they were not

included, was compiled.

Fortnum dated thcsc t(> the scvcntcenth century and noted

the portrait-like character of the heads. Such open coats and

nightcaps were cspccially typical of portraiture in the early

eighteenth century. That door-handles could bc based on

portraits is not an absurd idea. The ornamental heads

employed in the borders of the mid-sixteenth-century sacristy

door of st Mark's in Venice by Jacopo Sansovino-and which

serve as handles-were known to represent Sansovino, Titian,

and Aretino (Ghiberti had of course carlicr depicted himself

in a similar location) and that the Aretino was copied for

humbler situations is suggested by his boast that his effigy was

so familiar that it even served as a door handle ('see his Jjc#G7.c

f#//'¢yfe, ed. C. Cordic and F. Pertile (Milan,1957-8),Ill, i.

67 and 211 n. 340-a rcfcrence I owe to Jennifcr Fletcher).


@@196

196. Furniture handle in the form

of two fishes, with crossed tails,

respecting

11.7 cms. (height); 15.6 cms. (width)

Bron'/,c \''ith a natural dark brown patina and a few traces of gilding.

Open behiiid. Hole in gills of fish head facing right (perhaps froin

1 chaplet pin) imperfectly filled with a round plug. '8 / ~55 . /

e' painted in white in hollow.

Given bv C,. D. E. Fortnum on 15 Novcmbcr 1889. 8.1055 in his

catalogu-es. 'Bought Florence', presumably after 1857 when his

preliminary catalogue, in which it is not included, was compiled.

Catalogued by Fortnum as Italiaii of the sixtccnth century,

and certainly handles of this size and type wcrc then employed

in Italy, for example on thc' outsidcs of the arms of heavy

chairs, as may be seen in portraits of the period, stich as the

seated woman by Pontormo in the Stadclsches Kun'stinstitut,

r'rankfurt. Thcrc arc five handles involving similar fish in the

Bardini Collection, Florence, but all are designed to hang

from the tails. A similar design was employed for gold buckles

in Paris in the last century.


@@197

@@198

197 and 198. Pair of small door-knockers

or handles ornamented

with rams' heads strapped together

edos a dos,

12.6 cms. (hcight); 12.05 cms. (width)

Bronze, with a dark brown and pale green natura.I patina, ruhbed to

yellow at the six-sided moulded knocker, with iron ring suspenders

on an iron cross-bar. Cast open at the back. '8 / . -58 / G' anci

'8 / -59 / G' is pallited in white in the revi'rse hollows.

Given bv C. D. F^ Fortnum on 15 November 1889.13,1058 aiicl

8.1059 in his catalogues. 'Bought Florence', presumably after 1857

when his preliminary catalogue, in which they were noI included,

was compiled.

Catalogued by Fortnum as dating from the 'last half' of the

sixteenth century. There is a similar handle/knocker in the

Victoria and Albert Museum (15-1869, in rcservc) which

retains a bronze mask fitting from which the iron ring

suspender issues, and another is in the Bardini Collection,

Florence, also with such a mask. A Flt]rcntine oriSn is

suggested by the pierced lyre-shaped stone supports of the

balustrade on the fa€ade of palazzo Covoni-Daneo in

Florence, nearly opposite Palazzo Medici-Ricardi, t:he scrolls

of which terminate in cocks' heads in a manner reminiscent

of these rams' head knockers. This Palazzo, it is worth

pointing out, retains its oriSnal door fittings-knockers

incorporating paired cocks and handles in the form of cocks'

heads-presumably designed by the architect Ghcrado Silvani

in the 1620s.


@@199

199. Small door-handle and

knocker in the form of a finger ring

with a bezel 'diamante in punta'

issuing from the wolf's mouth

6.9 cms. (height); 5 3 cms. (width)

Bronze with a dark brown iiatural patina, yellow between masks and

on the point of the diamond. Some verdigris. Solid cast. '8.-53.

G' is painted ill white on the inslde of'the ring.

I,ent by C. D. E. Fortnum on 7 January 1888 and given later in the

same year. 8.1053 in his catalogues. Purcha'sed for I I in Rome in

1865.

Fortnum considered this as r'lorentinc of the fifteenth or early

sixtccnth century knowing that the 'dianiante in punta' was

an cmblem of the Medici family favoured in that period. Two

ring handles with diamond knockers are ill the Victoria and

Albcrt Museum (8876-1861-in reserve-and 7400-1860 on

display). Another is in the Museo Bardini in Florence. What

arc certainly modern handles of a similar model with no

connection with the Medici arc fixed to doors in Corso dci

Tintori and Via de' Conti. The 'diamante' remalned in favour

with the Medici as a subordinate family device throughout

the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries as may be sccn, for

example, from the sides of the sarcophari of the grand dukes

in S. I,orenzo, and it was used for door-handles in both

Palazzo I'itti and Palazzo Vecchio (Sala degli Elemcnti).


@@200

200. Lockplate for a portable chest

decorated with trophies and

captives, together with a hasp

decorated with a woman bearing

fruit and flowers

16.3 cms. (height of plate); 16.4cms. (width of plate); 19 cnis.

(length of hasp); 3.8 cms. (width of hasp at hinge end); 2.6cms.

(w]dth of hasp at lock cnd)

Bronze with a chocolate brown patina with some traces of a dark

varnish in the hollows. Solid Iost-war cast. The modelling appears

to bc in the wax. A patch of bronze is Inserted above the shoulder

of the captive bo}r.

Bequeathed by J. R. Jones,1951 (see bclow).

Over forty lockplatcs of this pattcm and design are recorded.

The best and most recent discussion of them and the fullest

hst will be found in Charles Avery, 'Fontaincbleau, Milan or

Rome.) A Mannerist Bronze Lock-Plate and Hasp', in Jf¢/¢.¢7¢

P/¢g#G#cr (Natit]nal Gallery of Art, Washington: Studies in

the History of Aft, 20,1989), 291~307. Avery points out

that they cannot have been fitted to heavy c¢j:jo7}¢. but were

well adapted to lighter travelling chests and have survived on

a couple of these.

The elongated figure on the hasp, the strapwork cartouches,

and the elegant vases have suggested the School of

Fontaincbleau to some scholars but these motifs wcrc popular

outside France and are all of Italian origin. Connections have

also been made with Milanesc work. Avery remarks on the

similarities with work by the Leori and in particular on the

affinity between the female figure on the hasp and the

allegorical figure of Patience on the reverse of the medal of

Ercole 11 d'Estc by Pompco Leoni (e1533-1608). The Lconi

family of sculptors and medallists worked in Rome as well as

in Milan and Madrid and there is armorial evidence, which

far outweighs that of style, which points towards Rome as a

city of origin for these lockplates.

Over half of the recorded examples have coats of arms.

Some of these arms, like those on the hasp in the Ashmolcan

Muscum's cxamplc, have not been identified and are, in any

i'ase, somewhat abbreviated in character and summary in

execution. Others seem to be the arms of north Italian families

and one cvcn belongs to a Dutch family (ibid. 305, no. 40),

but the majority are of Roman families, and these include

those on some of the finest cxamplcs of the type, and on

what is perhaps the most beautiful vc'rsit>n of all, that in the

Wallace Collection (ibid. 303, no.14) which is larger than

any other (22.8 cms. high) and of a very coppery metal, gilt.

This example has on its hasp the arms of Mattci impaling

Gongaza, presumably for the marriage of Marchese Asdrubale

Mattci with Costanza, daughtcr of Alfonso Gonzaga, which,

as Avery points out, could not have taken place much before

1585. Also of good quality is the versit)n, again gilt, once in

the Boston Athenacum, rcccntly given by Ncreo Fioratti to

the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston (1986.8), whii'h has the

Orsini arms on one side, the Savelli arms on the other, and

the two impaled on the hasp, which probably records the

marriage of Ludovico Orsini with Giulia Savelli bcforc 1585

when the former was put to death (ibid. 304, no. 25). Also

apparently of good quality is the vcrsion once in the possession

of the late John Hayward with the arms of the Colonna

impaled with those of the Peretti on the hasp, probably

recording the important marriage of 1589 between

Marcantonio Ill Colonna with the niece of Pope Sixtus V,

Fclice Orsini Peretti (ibid. 304, no. 27). There arc (jther

versions with the Orsini and Savelli arms ill the Hermiragc

and in the National Gallery of An in Wa'shington (ibid. 303-

4, nos. 9 and 22).

The imagery sccms curiously martial given these marital

armorials, but it would bc odd even for a soldier: female as

well as male captives arc not unexpected but both have been

warriors, the breast plate in the trophy above the female

having distinct projections for the bosom. This idiosyncrasy

of the design seems to have excited no comment. It makes

it even more surprising that it became standard for lockplates

of this pattern .

Many of the surviving versions arc good but obviously of

le'sser quality than those cited above. There are many minor

variations to be obscrved of which the most obvious are the

character of the masks in the square compartment in the

centre t>f the lateral panels (a lconinc satyr head in the

Ashmolcan version but more commonly a young female head)

and the character of the ornament in the compartments below

(a somewhat incoherent arrangement of scrolls and masks in

the Ashmolean version but mt]rc commonly cartouches,

sometimes containing arms). Avcry notes that the Ashmolcan

versit>n is identical with one of two examples in the Mu'sco

Nazionale di Palazzo Venezia, Rt]mc (his no.19, reproduced

and discussed by P. Cannata, A;/G.cp¢. G P/¢cc¢Gftc dG/ XV ¢/

XVJJJ i.cco/a (catalogue of cxhibition at Palazzo Venezia,

1982), 71-2, no. 68), alid another in a private collection,

Rome (his no. 32). Hc ct>nsiders all three to bc suspect.

Examination of the Ashmolean bronze reinforces sLispicions,

for there is no sign of a lock ever having been fitted, or {>f

the plate being subjected to any use. The plate would have

been fixed tc> the carcass of the chest with nails in the four

corners of the plate which would have had omamcntal heads

matching the mask ornaments in the sqiiare compartments,

but if' thcsc nailhcads were ever cmployed in this case they

have left no dent or evcn scratch.

It is likely that the Ashmo[can lt)ckplatc is a copy probably

made towards the cnd of the last century when such items

began to be eagerly collected. The dcta.il is much sharper than

is the case with one of the four versions in the Victoria and

Albert Museum (4817. A) which is obviously an aftercast, but

a wax cast might have been rcworked prior to the bronze

ca'sting. In that case, or if the wax model was simply a measured

copy, the bronze would be smaller than the prototype and

indeed this is true of this bronze and the other two cited by

Avery (the one in a private collection is said to be

16.5 x 16.5 cms., that in Palazzo Vcnczia 17 x 17 cms.) when

compared with those of better quality. It remains to identify

the prototype for these copies. A good candidate is the

example in Dallas Museum of Art (not in Avery''s list but scc

rl^%Y:oe%{a'n.d,Emerypen:?scolle\:;;;i3i;i;-inu':=u=:.i

Art,1985), I 76, entry by D. T. Owslcy). This is

app.roximatcly I cm.larger than the Oxford vcrsion ([hc width

is glven as 63inches) It is ofthc same design but gilt and

considcrablyworn.Withoutbeingaworkofthcqualityof

the finest examples mentioned above, all details, whether the

three birds in the arms, the fluttenng nbbon'' above the

helmet,orthewrigglingcontoilrsoftheewer'shandles,are

far finer and in(>re nervous than in the A'shmolean version

There are differences in the most minute dctall'', such as the

dccorationonthcbodiesoftheewcrsortheloopsofpattern

beside the strapwork frame of the kcyholc, which have been

omitted or simpljfied, and in the franljng mouldings, which

are less numerous and thicker in the Ashmolcan version.

FIT.1.INGS +'OR FURNLl'URE AND DoORS

Assistaiit Keepers in the Dcpartlnent recall that the bronze

lockplatc and hasp was among the Items bequeathed by

J. Reginald Jones, but it is not registered, does not appear on

any of the lists, and ls not mcntioned in the papers related

to that bequest. The list made in March 1951 after Jones's

death sccms likcly to providc a complctc and acci[rate guidc

to what was taken to the Museiim on that occasion (see

Nos. 277-9 for the circiimstaiices) but after the dcatli of his

widow Fjdith Mary Jones on 18 June 1962 less precise records

seem to ha'Je been made of'thc additional items which, in

late July of that year, were taken to the Museum. Some of

these additional items had n(„ bccn included (Mi earlier lists

since Mrs Jones had a scparatc collection of her own from

which the Museum was frcc to pick.


@@201

201. Water spout in the form of a

half-length armless monstrous

winged satyr

18 cms. (length)

Bronze with a natural dark brown patina. Small patches of verdigris.

Cast with the length of pipe, which has been broken off. Missing

the tap.

Presented by Mr Henry I. Pfungst FSA in 1908 (A7¢77z4¢/ RcPo74 for

that year, 8). See also Preliminary Essay and Nos. 203, 233, 234,

427.

There is a very similar spout in the Victoria and Albcrt Museum

(1246-1888) which retains a tap in the form of a putto

holding a staff. Bell, recording the acquisition in the 47z7£#¢/

Rcpo74, noted that it was said to bc north Italian of the

Paduan School and of the late fifteenth or early sixtccnth

century. The type of satyr certainly is derived from the

creatures favoured by founders in Padua and Ravenna. Such

models were still in use later in the sixteenth century, but this

piece may well date before 1550 and is included here for

comparison with other items of this kind.


@@202

202. Tap handle in the form of the

wolf suckling Romulus and Remus

7.7 cms. (height exclusive of screw 2 cms. in length)

Bronze with a very dark brown natural patina and some traces of

black varnish. Heavy, probably solid, cast. The modern brass screw

'soldered into place.

Presented in 19o8 by Mr Max Roscnheim (A7c7¢#¢/ RcPo7? (1908),

8).

Bell, recording this acquisition in the A7£7i#¢/ RcPo7z dated

it to the sixteenth century' Conservatism in such items makes

it hard to exclude a later date. Rome must bc a possible place

of origin, but Siena a more likely one, on account of the

subject-matter-the badge of Siena being the Wolf and twins

(legend having it that it was founded and takes its name from

Senio, 'son of Remus).


@@203

203. Water spout in the form of a

monstrous head

15.7cms. (length)

Bronze with a dark brown natural patina. Fitted with the length of

copper pipe (sawn off). The threaded tap (missing its handle) i's

cast separately. The geometric pattern is chiselled in the metal.

Inscribed in red pajnt on underside of spout between collar and tap

'Given / by / Mr Henry J . Pfungst / I 904'.

Presented by Mr Henry J. Pfungst FSA in 1904. r'or Pfungst see

Preliminary Essay, and Nos. 201, 233, 234, and 427.

C. F. Bell, recording this acquisition in the A#7¢z4¢/ RcP(77?

for 1904 (p.I), described it as 'Venetian' and a valiiablc

addition to the Renaissance collection. There seems no spccia[

reason to consider it as Venetian or indeed Renalssancc,

although it might be. Thc type of monster is not improbable

as an ornament in the carly eighteenth century.


@@204

204. Water spout in the form of a

stylized fish head with a tap handle

in the form of a lion supporting a

shield

17.2 cms. (height of tap); 23.2 cms. (length of spout)

Bronze or brass with a dark brown natural patina worn to yellow ill

a few salient areas (eg. the edgc of the shield and leafy ornament

over the fish's eyes). The handle is solid cast.

Given by Mcssrs. Durlachcr of Bond Street in 1904.

It is perhaps no coincidence that the firm of I)urlacher (which

had been in business throughout the second half of the

nineteenth century) had, together with Ashcr Wcrtheimer,

purcha'sed the collection of bronzes belonging to Henry

Pfungst who also gave the Museum an item of old Italian

plumbing in the .same year (No. 203). Such pieces wcrc

probably not of much intcrcst to American millionaires.

C. F. Bell, recording this acquisition in the 47?»#¢/ Repo74

of 1904 (p. I), observed that it was 'Vcnetian' and made a

'valuable addition' to the Rcnaissancc Collection. The

crispness of this cast is quitc' different from any authentic

Italian fitting of this kind dating from the sixtccnth or

seventeenth century but does suggest the sort of work found

in mid-nineteenth-century Italian public fountains such as

those in Piazza della Scala, Milan. Thcrc is a pair of very

similar lion tap handles in the Museo Bardini, Florence.

FURNITURE

Unassociated with a Named Sculptor or Craftsman

(Cupboards, Cassoni, Caskets, Chairs, Pedestals)


@@205

205. Two-stage cupboard

ornamented with terminal caryatids

146.5 cms. (height); 82.5 cms. (width, at base moulding);

49.5 cms. (height of iipp€r caryatids); 7 cms. (length of upper

caryatids); 4 cms. (width of upper caryatids including 'ground' of

0.5 cms.); 68.2 cms. (height of lower caryatids); 7 cms. (length

of lower caryatids); 4 cms. (width of lower caryatids)

Walnut, with burr walnut. Many dents and scratches and much

worm damage, on account of which the caryatid to proper right in

the higher pair has lost much of her nose.

Bequeathed by A. G. 8. Russell in 1958 (see also Nos. 33940, 577).

According to the card index of his collection it was bought by him

on 19 May 1924 from 'Comm. Prof. Elia Volpi of Piazza Torino,

Florence' for 8,000 lire (£8112s. 8d).

The cupboard was regarded by Russell, and by the Museum

on acquisition, as Florentine and of the sixteenth century; it

resembles Italian work of the second half of this period and

the terminal figures with small scroll arms, over which the

drapery is hooked here, together with the scale ornament on

the upper pair's piers, are found in ornamental Florentine

work (most notably in the herms of Hercules in the great

walnut desk in the Sala dell'Udicnza in Palaz,zo Vecchio,

Florence) and the motif of a tasseued swag overlapping the

scaled tapering piers is closely paralleled in an 'Armadino

pensile' in a Florentine private collection (P¢/¢z2;a Vccc¢¢.a.-

Cjommittenza e collezionismo medicei (FLorcncc, \980) , 208-

9, no. 390).


@@206

206. Cassone ornamented with

shields and masks

60.8 cms. (height); 181.5 cms. (length); 58.5 cms. (width of lid);

18.5 cms. (height and width of the three panels coiitaining masks,

from the narrow mouldings outside the bead and reel ornament)

Walnut.

I,€iit by C. D. E. Fortnum in October 1894 and bequeathed in

1899. F.10 in his catalogues. 'Bt. Florence' according to bt>th

catalogues, perhaps in 1875-see below.

Fortnum dated this Florentinc c¢Jf//72c to the middle twenty

years of the sixtccnth century: it might however be later in

date than 1560. Although hc does not enter the date upon

which hc acquired it this is likely to bc 1875 when he

purchased the other Florentine furniture in his collection-a

pair of seventeenth-century chairs, another sixteenth-century

c4pfj.o7¢c, a sixteenth-century stool and table (F. I I, F.12, F.13,

F.14, F.15). These purchases cannot have been unconnected

with his rebuilding of the Hill House, Stanmore.


@@207

207. Cassone ornamented with

acanthus leaves at the corners

62 cms. (height); 176 cms. (length cms. (length); 59 cms. (width)

Walnut with some inlay, perhaps of holly, for a thin string ba.nd

framing the principal panel of each side, with an iron lock (old but

not original) and evidence of t>riginal pin hinges.

Given by Mr and Mrs Edmund Houghton in 193z rogethcr with

No. 208.

The c¢fjo~G is of similar size to No. 208 and has identical

gadrooning, lion's paw feet, and raised central portion to the

lid. Here too extra interest is provided by what are additions

to the front corners although here they are acanthus leaves

and extend from the lion's paw foot. The Houghtons also

gave a roughly blocked-out wooden model purporting to be

the model for the pedestal of one of the pair of marble holy

water stoups in the Duomo at Siena made in the early 1460s

by Antonio Federighi (1420-90) but surely the abandoned

start of a modern copy of the same, also some alabaster and

marble sculpture of dubious status (see the 4»7£#¢/ RcPo7¢

(1937), 33). There is a facetious account of their dreadul

collection and their generosity in bestowing items from it

upon friends rash enough to express polite enthusiasm for

them in the first volume of Kcnncth Clark's autobiography.


@@208

208. Cassone ornamented with

harpies at the corners

61.7cms. (height); 177cms. (length); 56cms. (width); 33.5 cms.

(height of each harpy)

Walnut (bleached) with some inlay, with iron handles and lock. The

shaped inlay for the cartouche of the central coat of arms and for

thepairofboysrestrajningwolves(whichareengravedinthewood)

might be a nineteenth-century addition. The lid miist be a

replacement although it is made from old wood. The harpies are

carved out of separate pieces of wood and although battered have

none of the worm damage found in the corners behind them. The

npse of the hapy to proper left has been broken off and one scrolled

'VIng end has bccn broken off and reattached. The scrolled headdress and some of the nose of the other harpy have been broken off as has

the end of one scrolled wing.

Given by Mr and Mrs Edmund Houghton in 193z together with

No. 207. For their other gifts see the entry for No. 207.

The harpy to proper left has a moustache which is unusual.

On acquisition the c¢j:focec was regarded as Italian and of the

second half of the sixteenth century; it surely is Italian and if

the engraved inlay is authentic it must date from the

seventeenth century. A sinilar c¢ffo%G with gadrooned base,

applied harpies, and engraved inlay was acquired by the

National Gallery of scotland in 1989. Another is in the City

Art Gallery and Museum, Birmingham.


@@209

209. Cassone ornamented with

gadrooning and fluchg

53 cms. (height); 140.7 cms. (length of lid); 47.5 cms. (width of

lid)

Walnut. The plinths beneath the lion's paw feet must bc additions.

Bequeathed by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1899. F.11 in his catalogucs.

'Bt Florence 1875', according to large and notebook catalogucs,

for £20 according to the latter. Kept in the hall at the Hill House,

Stanmore.

This c¢ffo#cwas dated by Fortnuni 153040. The sarcophagus

shape of the chest certainly became popular about then but

this is densely ornamented with mouldings fashionable in

Florentine wood carving of the second half of the sixteenth

century. It is an excellent design: more varied in its contrasts

of hollow and relief and more lively, on account of the radial

pattern of its gadrooning, than the best-known c¢+To72G of this

type which is now in the Museo Nazionalc of the Bargcllo

(Palazz,o Vecchio: Committenz,a e collezioni§mo medicei

(Florcncc,1980), 209-10, no. 393; F. Schottmtillcr, Jowo4£/¢.

e lJalitaz,lone del Rinaccimento in It:alia (S"ttgart, L928).

65, no.153)). The ornamental style may bc compared with

that of the map cupboards in Palazzo Vecchio carved to

Vasari's designs by Dionigi di Matteo in 1563 and with the

stucco designed by Ammanati for the Loggia di Giunonc in

the same Palace. (Both comparisons are made by Maddalcna

Trionfi Honorati in the catalogue cited above.) But by

comparison with genuine sixteenth-century carvings of this

sort its execution appears mechanical and, despite the claims

presumably made for it by the dealer from whom Fortnum

bought it, it must have been made as a copy or imitation

bccausc it has modern hinges and no wear. When owned by

Fortnum the c¢jTo„c retained a crimson vclvct cover on the

raised slab of its lid.


@@210

210. Casket with applied winged

masks and sirens

26.3 cms. (height); 51 cms. (length); 28 cms. (width)

Poplar. The slrens, the winged masks, aiid the stud ornaments arc

aH carved separately and applied. The.re is a separate compartment

\vith a sliding top in the lid of the casket, but the top is missing.

Mouldings at th.' back of the short side of thL' caskc't to proper

FURNITURE

right are missing, as are one round small and one long stud. The

base is riddled with woodworm. The lock and hiligcs, are original

The letter 'F' is t'arvefl ru;ire ^n thp ^,.+.:1^ ,'f .I. _ _I

is carved twice on the outside of the plain back panel

of the casket.

Pr(>bably the 'Italian ca.sket 16th century' presented by Henry J

Pfungst in 1899.

The casket is probably Italian and the style of ornament

suggests the late sixteenth or early scventcenth century.


@@211

211. Casket with lion's paw feet,

ornamented with curling strapwork

31.8cms. (height); 46.3 cms. (length 32 cms. (width)

Walnut. The intenor of the casket is lined with pine painted red.

There is a separate compartment with a sliding top in the lid of the

casket.

Bcqueathed by C. D. E. Fortnum in 1899. I.. 8 in his catalogues.

Bought in Florence,1875, for £2, at the same date, and possibly from th.. same source, as many of the other pieces of Italian furniture.

Fortnum catalogued this as Italian of e1550. It may bc later

in date. The curling strapwork, which graduates into scale

ornament where the ciirled ends seem to overlap with others

behind, is found on larger Florcntinc c¢ffo%;, as is the curious

imitation of basketwork (anticipating the ripple inoiildings of

sevcntecnth-century ebony frames). Larger caskets of similar

style but superior execution are displayed on a table in the

Sala degli F,lementi in Palazzo Vecchio, Florence, and on a

table in the painted room in Palazzo I)avan7.ati, Florence.


@@212

212. Casket with lion's paw feet,

ornamented with scales and other

ornament

21.5 cms. (height); 40.5 i:ms. (length); 29.5 cms. (width)

Walnut. The casket rctains t>ld, perhaps original, divisions inside.

There is a separate compartment with a sliding top in the lid of the

casket. The hingcs are modcm rcplaccmcnts. The original lock

remains in place but is broken.

Provenance unrecorded, bilt possibly bequeathed in 1899 by

C. D. F,. Fortiium, for a manu'script list of 'Objects now at The Hill

I Iouse Stanmore but to go to Oxford' made late in his life includes

'a i'asket of carved chestnut or walnut wood with sliding top lid at

present in our bedroom' to which no number had bccn assigned. It

was perhaps acquired with No. 211.

The casket is probably Italian and the style of ornament

suggests the late sixteenth or early scventcenth century. The

initials IHS, abbreviating the name of Jesus, with the Cross

above the bar of the 'H' and three nails below it, carved in

the cartouche of the central compartment of the front of the

casket, below the keyhole, indicate an ecclesiastical origin.

~=AC_LW±ththree

compartme=t:

1:.:=Sa:::gbhotn)':34:ms(length)'27cmvdepth)

:aa=br:re.nLthl'Ckcncc]

PBae::ft.hch;:,',:.C:(a)o:]ttnh^m_3ht>ga,'y

R4^ . _

;:::I_o=tfFP:ott:,::'f'i,t'(-i:C=c(?i,,no:,tdate,trhc,n"de

o£:i3::o:nuFfo:6pnc:in:a:t:c:(.nt:::faiuF5:o:pf:;::,;tiikg;bg#;9no;::tTd;:e'L,C;::my:(,;g5::;;s::,:in

;;ii;32';i:mfif'ip''/';;;ro8%;A;:/r5':::;:::n;;8:A:;'£:k:d:::d:in:gdhptdb

72

H'

_-I

:=4°.11ir='==;i¥g±ethd°];'Einsand

s:=Aor]lingi*faw8]:

chair

•1

a,, _'\4

i,;d:cn;;Sf:wo:hn:u:::;];S~7:=s=m:]eenvI=phhj:4o3cms::hj

tt a"Sf:::e:a:ib;Sisc:h:Ok;y:#iF§:pno£

ar::Oo;:h:ussin;;:O:a:w;bk;#ShShp:ao::t:;ri:::hh:a

BBo:^:#:n=dn£¥:;nh::S:SfiSg#:tn:th::C°:i::alE:o±:s

;L;e±SS;:cssc[tfSstcantfe:REeee=.:I:¥S=:csep:grnfdfS~cS;,g§:Srn:edph±

'L<


@@215

215. High-backed chair

ornamented with scrolls and

cornucopia

128.5 cms. (height); 45 cms. (length); 38 cms. (width)

Probably maple. The cresting of the back, together with the moulded

framing at the top of the back, is carved from a single piece; it is

very roughly finished behind. Each post is carved from a single piece.

The front legs and the stretchers are each carved from a single piece.

The front proper right leg is ccrtalnly modern and has a modcm

turned dowel. The stretcher to proper right is of oak and probably

also a rcplaccment. The ornamental carving below the scat is carved

from a single piece. The panel of damask set in the bai'k is modern,

and so too is the framework around it carved with leaves. At the

sides this modern framework includes the bead moulding which

makes it appear continuous with the older parts of the Iop and

bottom of the chair back. The back was presumably originally caned.

The damask-covered seat is also modern. When it is removed,

perforation for caning can bc seen. The upper part of the frame of

the scat, which is carved with scale ornament and partly covers the

holes, is modern.

Bequeathed by C. D. F,. Fortnum in 1899. Ii'.13 in his catalogues.

Bought by him in Florence in 1875 for £3.

Fortnum considered this chair to be Florentine of the

scventccnth century. The scale ornament of the scat frame is

very much in the style of one of the sarcophad which Fortnum

bought in Florence at the same date (see No. 209). The chair

may well have been supplied by the same dealer. The whole

chair has been dismissed (verbally both by curators in the

museum and by visitors) as of modern manufacture, and it is

certain that this style of seventeenth-century furniture was

reproduced in abundance in the last century, but the

roughness of the carving behind and the undisguised repairs

suggest that this might be an authentic seventeenth-century

piece. The chair was bought together with No. 214 but they

are not a pair and when seen in a good tight are not the same

colour. As with No. 214 the chair has been thought to bc

British of the late seventccnth century.


@@216

@@217

@@218

216, 21z and 218. Three side

chairs decorated with cockle-shells,

weedy fronds, and dolphins

(only one illustrated)

105.4cms. (height); 50.2 cms. (width); 59.7cms. (length)

Beech, gilded on aH visible surfaces. The water-gLIding is not likely

to be original. On No. 218 some of it is certainly a replacement.

The gesso has not however been superimposed. The gilding is worn

in some areas to expose the ruddy grey-brown bole preparation on

the gesso; elsewhere the bole has flaked and the ge'sso chipped;

varnish has been applied to tone the gilding and consolidate these

losses and gold paint has been used since by the Museum workshop

to cover some of the gesso. On all chalrs each post is of a single

piece of wood joined to the curved top rails below the eyes of the

dolphins. These top rails, together with the cockle-'shell crest, are

of<isinglepiecewhichjsalsojt)inedto[hetopofthcsplat.Shrinkage

hascausedthejoinstoopenconspicuou'slyacro.ssthetopofthesplat

(ill a line passing through the eyes of thp c'hild's head) in all three chairs. The joins betwcen the front seat rail and the front legs have

also opened. The bird's eye ptlnchwork on the ground of styles,

around the cartouche of the splat, on the chair rail, the lower part

of the front legs, and the rear t)f the back legs is now very indistinct

with the central dot not always legible. It appears to have been in

the wood but it may have been obscured by the gesso in regilding

Thelinesin[hepetalsoftheflower-headsonthestylesarcsimilarly

obscured. The chairs 216, 21z and 218 are incised on the inside of

the bai'k raH of the scat frame under the splat with the numbers I,

Ill, IV; chairs 216 and 217 are also incised with 11 and IV on the

jnsjdcs of the strctchcrs of the drop-in scats and 218 is also incised

with V on the in'side of.the front rail of the drop-in seat-these are

more deeply cut than are the numbers on the scat frames. The

Italian damask of the dropin seat is a modern covering of about

1970.

Given by Mrs F. R. Weldon in 1934. Bought by 'Martin'-a dcaler~

as lot 134, Christie's, London, 5 November 1929, the sale of

Colonel Claude lowther, MP, JP, of Herstmonceux Ca'stle (1872-

1929). A photograph in the catalogue shows the chairs in a room

in the castle. Ijowther purchased the castle unfurnj.shed in 1913 and

is likely to have bought the chairs after that date. No. 218 has [)een

on loan to the Victoria and Albert Museum since 1964.

At least 17 chairs t>f this type, now generally datccl to bctwccn

1725 and 1740, are recorded. As William RIedcr was the first

to point out when publishing a set of four in the Metropolitan

Museum ('Eighteenth Century Chairs in the Untcrmyer

Collection', 4Po//a (Mar. 1978),181-5), these can bc. divided

into at least t\vo sets-the Ashmolcan's thrcc, togcthcr with

two in the collection of l'rofessor C. Truesdcll of John

Hopkins University, being diffcrcnt in construction and in

detailing from the chairs in the Metropolitan Museum and in

other collections. Professor Trucsdcll, who owns chairs from

both sets, has examined these diffcrenccs at length in 'A

Puzzle Divided: English and Continental Chairs Following a

Unique Design of the Early Eighteenth Ccntury', F»r#¢.}z¢rc

Hz.f}ory, 20 (1984), 57i;0, pls. 76-80, pointing out that the

heavier character of the Ashmolcan set and the fact that in

this set the shoe of the splat is not integra.I with the back rail

of the scat frame indicatc continental rather than English

craftsmanship, whereas the other set appear to bc entirely

typical of English work. When the ornament is compared it

will be found that the Ashmolean chairs possess more

boldness, plasticity, and linear vitality, although the others are

of remarkable quality and indeed greater delicacy. Particularly

revealing is the greater concavity in the Ashmolcan chairs of

the shell-like forms springivg from the knees of the cabriole

legs and the more varied curvature of the fronds below, and

the fish tail above, the child's head at the top of the splat.

The chairs have long been admired as among the finest of

their period in existence. The cabrit>l€ legs and vasiform splat

are characteristic of English chairs of the carly eighteenth

century but neither the character of thc ornament, nor its

wit-the top rails formed as of dolphin-like fishes biting the

styles, echoed in the forms of the front feet; the fish head on

the 'scat rail reappi'aring in thi- eartt>iiche of the splat with a

foreshortened body wriggling behind it in swirling waves~

can bc matched in other English furniture of this period. Nor

indced is the relationship bctwci'n the double curves of splat

And styles, which make the spaces between as bcguilingly

beautiful as the solid elements thcmsclves, easy to parallel ill

English furniture dcsign even at its most sophistii'ated.

The idea that Italiali craft'mien wi.re involved in the creation

of [hc''e chairs seems to have been suggested by both John

Hayward and Alvar Gt]nzalcz-Palacios bcft]rc the alien

construction of [hc Ashmolcan chairs was cmphasized by

True.sdell. Various hypotheses could be advanced to explain

the origins of these t.wo sets: the most probably would sccm

to bc that the Ashmolean set were made in Italy for the

F,nglish market, or by Italian craftsmen in F,ngland, and the

other set copied from them by some of the best native

i.raftsmcn.

The donor, Mrs Wcldon, was the widow of'thc I,inacre

Professor of Comparative Anatomy (who died 1906). Among

the works of art given by her between 1915 and her death in

1936, and those which she bcqucathed, arc. many of the

greatest paintings in the Museum (Claude's Aj.c¢7!¢.G¢J LS¢oof¢.7?g

the Stag'Wa:tt€an's I,e Repos graciettx, Drost's, Ruth and

Naomi, Corot's Tuscan Hill 'l'own, Boningron's Amy

Robsun, C2ImiiJ:le P.\ssa[ro' s Jardin de Tuileries, Orpen' s

C47cxp/eyer+) but no other itcms of furniture except a Georgian

card table. Since she purchased these chairs at a time in her

life when she must have wanted less rather than lnore furniture

for her own home it is reasonable to suppose that she had

the Museum-and indeed the new room named in her

honour-in mind.


@@219

@@220

@@221

@@222

219, 220, 221, and 222. Set of four

wall pedestals for statues

(only one illustrated)

112.7cms. (height of each)

Marble cladding on a stone core. Each pedestal is constnicted in

four parts: the plinth is of po7?a pc#c7ic (black marble from Genoa

with yellow veins of a distinctive liquid form, known in Britain in

the eighteenth century as 'gold vein'); the base mouldings are of

slightly grey veined white Carrara statuary marble; the principle pier

is of white Carrara statuary marble with panels of mottled pink,

yellow, and white marble (probably a pale roco ¢g. F7'¢79c;¢); the

uppermost mouldings of white Carrara statuary marble. The

pedestals have obviously suffered from frequent reassembling and

arc chipped at the joins between the different parts, as well as being

dirty and scratched.

Acquired in 1950 together with the busts of Popes Clement XII,

Clement XIII, Innocent XIII, and Benedict XIV (which they still

support)-see Nos. 22-5.

The pedestals arc flat with no mouldings behind and were

clearly intended to be placed against a wan. It is most unlikely

that they were made for the busts by Claus which they now

support, for the plinths of the socles of these busts seem too

small and their square form contrasts unhappily with the

concave shapes of the pedestals. This concavity and the

chanfered angles derive from the inventions of Borromini but

their less sharp edges, less dramatic curvature, and more

orthodox mouldings are characteristic of Roman archit.ecture

in the first half of the cightecnth century. The use of po7to

i7c#GrG also suggests this date, but it is hard not to suspect

that the plinth, where this is employed, is an addition to

increase the height of the pedestals for the busts. The I(>wcr

height would have made them suitable for statues. To thcsc

arguments it may bc objected that the soclcs of the busts by

Claus might not be original, but it is impossible to imagine

any style of soclc which would mediate in an entirely happy

manner bctwecn the busts and thcsc pedestals. It was also

very rare in this period for busts to be mounted on spreading

pedestals. Straight columnar pedestals were used for busts in

the second half of the eighteenth century: before that tapering

term supports which compensate for and dramati7.c the

pyramidal shape of the bust itself wcrc favoured. On the other

hand spreading pedestals are often found as supports for

statues, especially small statues, in Roman palaces: those in

wood in the gallery of Palazzo Doria Pamphili, those in

travcrtinc in the garden of palazzo Borghcsc and on the

staircase of Palazzo Barbcrini are examples.

@@223

223. Pedestal ornamented with

swags and the heads of lions and

goats

17 8 cms. (height Including corner finials), 2'3 cms (length),

16.3cms. (width)

Bronzc wlth a ruddy chestnut patina darkened in parts AH the high

relicformmentiss.'paratclycastandboltedtothemainbodyof

the plinth which is a hollow lost'wax cast with thin walls, open

beneath The majoflty of the bolts appear to bc onginal The swags

are not now fixed in their original place behind the ears of the goats.

Therei'sastripoffire-giltbronzefixed,withmodernsolder,to[he

base moulding of the plinth. It has slipped on one side This may

not be an original feature One of the fire-gilt bronze pomegranate

finialsonthecornersofthcuppcrsurfaccofthepllnthisrmssing.

There are two attachment holes on thc. upper surface of the plmth

7cms. apart.

This must be the 'beautiful pedestal of fine Gnquc cento work

bearingthearmsoftheGrandDukeofTuscany'onwhlch'ABison,

an antique bronze found at L'Ar].ccia near Rome' was moimted

when it was given to the University Galleries by Chambers HaH in

1855 (CJ%.%7rG.ty G¢//Gzz." Do#¢f¢.o#f Boo4, 28). In 1888 when this

littlcbronzewastransferredfromthcRandolphGallcry(1888.1482

(76))"wasdcscnbedasstillwlthitspedestalbutalsoasrestingon

I.'URNITURJ'',

a pedestal of polished porphyry 4;" by 2Z" and I:-'' hlgh 'havilig a

g]It metal border round the bottom'|his porphyry plinth must

have been intermediary between the pedestal and the statuette or

possibly a recent replacement f'or this pedestal. By that date the

bronze's connection with Chambers IIall had beeti forgotten. There

isnorccordofthetransferofthjsbrom,e'Bison'totheDepartmcnt

ofwestcrnAnbutithasforovertwenty-fivcycarsbeenondlsplay

as a 'buH of Apis' upon an ebonized pedestal of thc' M¢yc#f 24#ffG/G.%f

type labclled in gold as fiftccnth-century Italian and giving the

provenance as 'Bodleian Collection' After transfer the pedestal must

have been removed. The porphyry plilith may have been recycled at

the same date~its dimensions correspond exactly with those of the

slab upon whit.h the rel'Ijning nude woman attributed to Cellini

(No. 21) is now mounted.

The pedestal cannot have bccn the original one for the little

bronze B#//-it is too large and the 8" has a distinctive

green patina which is quite different. Lurthermore the 8#//

looks like an early Renaissancc work whereas the pedcs[al,

although hard to date for certain, does not. It is decorated

with the arms not of the grand duke of Tuscany but of a

prelatewhoschatisontopwithabishop'ssixtasselshanging

to either side of a shield quarterly, 1 and 4 a lion rampant,

2 and 3 on a bend between thrcc fleur de lis three crooks

(? perhaps hammers or shears).

@@224

224. Inkstand in the form of three

sphinxes (with a lid decorated with

a group of a standing nymph and

seated satyr)

16.2 cms. (height of each sphinx); 361 cnis. (height of sraml wlth

groiips on lid); 13.5 cms (diamercr of'r]m inouldings above

heads of sphlmcs)

Bronze with a natural rich red chestnut patma worn to a yellow tan

on nails and nipples, with 'sonie traces of a darker varnish Hollow,

lost-wax, cast. There is a conical ink pot of' pale green blown glass

(presumably a replacement) suspcnded within an iron ring. There

a_re perforations in the thin wall of bronze in the backs of the wings;

thc' backs of [hc heads and wings and shoulders are not carefully

finished, but the more visible areas very carefully tooled and polished.

'B/-76/F' is painted in white on the rim below the rumps of the

sphinxes, and below that 'No 60o 1855', crossed out (the same

marks appear under the base of the crowning group).

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum in October 1894 and b€qucathed by him

in October 1899. No.1076 in his catal(>gues. Purchased by him at

the sale of the Uzielli Collection, Christie's, London,17April 1861,

lot 666, for £42, using 'Whitehcad' (presumably [hc dealer) as

agent. 'It formerly belonged to Mr Bernal', that is Ralph Bemal, the

great collector of glass, ceramics, enamels, arms, and armc>ur and was

lot no.1280 on the eleventh day of his posthumous sale,16 March

1855, where it fetched 30 guineas.

The inkstand was very highly regarded by Fortnum -and

iiot only by him; he mentioned that 'the latc sig. Alessandro

Castellani offered me fl200 for it.' It had bccn illustrated in

J. C. Robinson's C,T¢£4I/o2r%c a/£¢c V¢7'G.o#f Woy¢f ofA77

Forming the Collectton of Matthew Uz,ielli, Esq. of Hanover

I,tJdc7c, Regre%£'f P¢7~¢ ((London,1860), pl. 8, nt). 600) which

was adopted as the sale catalogue after Uziclli's death in the

following year. Robinson dcscribed it as 'spleiidid' and dated

it to 'about 1530.' The integrity of the enLsemble was

qucstioned by Bode on a visit to the Muscum on 6 March

1903 as recorded by C. F. Bell in an annotation to Fortnum's

large catalogue. He considered that 'top and bottom had in

the first instance nothing to do with one anothcr', the lower

part being 'Cellinicsque' and 'pcrhaps a hundred years later in

datc'. Bcll added 'It has long been my view that the thing as

it sta_nds is a rzf¢cz.77zc7¢+r7 but in view of its fame & the great

store set upon it by Mr Fortnum I should have hesitated to

express it'. The group on the lid, generally now known as

the C47¢ffG.fc74%72£ of p¢7¢, exists in other versions, and is

regarded as a product of the workshop of Severo da Ravenna.

It must bc an invclition of the first years of the sixteenth

Centiiry (if not of the last of the fifteenth century) And it will

bc considered separately in the catalogiic of the Muscum's

Medic\ral and Rcnaissancc sculpture.

There i'' cvidcnce, howcvcr, that Scvcro's workshop was

Still active in the mid-sixtccnth century (scc No. 9), so it is

not Impossible that the lid is contemp(>rary with the stancl,

i'Ilcl it ccrtalnly appears to have bccn originally cast with a

hea\'}' round base (and not subsequently fitted with such a

I)asc) to ser\'e as a lid. Other \'crsions of the sphinx stand

support an clcgant spiral grt>up of a fcmalc nudc figure

flogging a rccumbcnt, cowering, howling male figure, a

group, far better suited to it in style and in scale, which it

would be hard [o date before 1550. It is worth speculating

that the Ashmolean bronze might be the conscqucncc of

something akin to a 'mall-order confusion', for both groups

could bc described as the 'punishmcnt of vice' and a bronze

founder familiar with this old model might have cast it to fit

the base by mistake. The alt-ernative explanation w(]uld bc that

the old group was fitted to [hc new base by a collector or a

dcalcr just as a quattroccnto painting might be givcn a

cinquecento fralnc, at any time betwccn the sixteenth and

early nineteenth centuries. In any case thei.e is no reason to

doubt the antiquity of the stand, and Bell was correct to

delctc the word 'Modcrn' in Bodc's description of it in Jf¢/G.¢72

Bronze Statuettes tif the Renaissance, i' (Ijondr]n' 1907), 28,

as 'a inod€rn copy of the Borghcse inkstand by Ccllini'.

'Thc Borghcse inkstand' was the version of the stand

together with the spiral flogging groiip with which Bode was

familiar. It was then in the collection of Baron Alphonse von

Rothschild in Vienna (Bode illustrated it, op. cit. ii, (1908),

pl. CXLV) and was said to have come from Palazzo Borghcsc

in Romc. Its whereabouts are now not known, but it was

in 1955 in the collection of Mrs Max Epstcin in Chicago

(according to J. Draper's 1980 rcvision of Bode). Other

versions are in the ljouvre and the Spced An Museum,

I,ouisville. There is also a sphinx inkstand without any lid in

the Victoria and Albert Museum (M. 358-1956) and a version

of the spiral group designed as a lid, which might once have

fitted over the stand in the Victoria and Albcrt Museum, is in

the Frick Collection in New York (see J. Pope-Hcnnessy and

A. F. Radcliffe, 7l¢G fyG.c4 Co//ec£G.o7}, iii (New York,1970),

234-9). By dn extraordinary coincidence Fortnum's

preliminary catalogue of 185z pp. 55-z reveals that he

bought a version of this group in Rome in 1851 but on a

diff'€rcnt base con'sisting of kneeling tritons. He noted that it

was very similar to the group in the private apartments of

Palazzo Borghese attributed to 'John of Bologna'. It had been

damaged in the siege of Rome in 1849. He had doubts of

its antiquity and, probably for this reason, disposed of it.

There are also versions of the spiral group which arc not

designed as a lid, but they are generally of lower quality. In

addition to Giambologna and Cellini, the following names

have been advanced in [hc hunt for the creator of the spiral

group and the base: Picrino da Vinci, Ammanati, Domenico

Poggini, Rustici, Taddco ljandini. The fullest discussions of

the problem are those by Ulrich Middeldorf in 'F,ine seltene

Bronze dcr Spatrenaissancc', rcprinted in R¢cco/f¢ edG. fcr¢.#z',

ii (Florence,1980), 303-8, and by Pope-Hennessy and

Radcliffe (op. cit.). There has been little success in detecting

other bronzes which might bc by, or after, the same artist,

but the youth on a scaliorsc in the Waltcrs Art Gallery,

Baltimore, attributed to Ammanati (54.465) seems to me to

bc a related work.

Were it not for their close association with the spiral

flogging group, which must surely be Italian and has never

been proposed as anything else, it would be tempting to

suggest that [hc stands were made north of the Alps. The version in the Victoria and Albcrt Museum is labelled as

German or Flemish, but it is France that comcs to mind.

Sphinxesorharpieswithasimilarlysleckelasticitywercpopular

with the school of Fontainebleau and can be found in works

of art of all types from ornamental keys (scc, for example,

those in the Walters Alt Gallery, Baltimore, 52.88 and

57.698, in the Victoria and Albcrt Museum 5610, 5613,

5616-1859, or in the Mus€c de la Renaissance, £T,coucn,

CI,. 20991 or Clj. 22147) tt) elaborate carved wo(,idcn

cabinets (see, above all, the I)ycffo;r ¢#i* ¢#yp;er, Ecouen,

Cl,. 20426, but also No. 323). The mt]st familiar sphinxes in

Italian bronzes of the sixteenth century are very different

from these, but they are all made in Venice or the Vencto

(scc No. 226). If one looks to other ccntrcs and at works in

other media, analogies may be detected. Middeldorf (op. cit.

307) cited the silver altar ftirnishings in St Pctcr's made by

Andrca Gentile of Faenza for Cardinal Ales'sandro Farnesc,

which however are not sufficiently close to warrant all

attribution .

It remains to point out the variations in the five rccorded

versions of the inkstand. The wings of the sphinxes arc tied

together in the Ashmolean and the Louisville versions, but in

the latter are enriched with garlands. The Ashmolean,

Ijouisville, and Victoria and Albcrt Museum versions all have

a base supported by claw feet. In the untraced Borghesf-

Rothschild version, and those in the Ijouvrc and Victona and

Albert, the wings of the sphinxes arc hooked into projecting

shells. Thcrc arc other minor differences: for instance, in the

Victoria and Albert version the wings arc less feathery than

those in the Aslrmolcan; the sphinxes there also have tails

which are missing in the Ashmolean version.

Lastly, since the sphinxes in these stands arc often described

as harpies it should be pointed out that according to the

standard authority of the period, Vincenzo Cartari's J,c

imagini con la §|)ositione de i d:i de glj ?ntichi (ychce,

1556), 296, sphinxes had the face and breasts of' a woman

with great wings but were otherwise lions whereas (p. 293)

harpies had the face of a beautiful but lean (7%¢gy¢) woman

but in the rest of their bodies were birds with large wings

and with hooked talon-s as they are described by Virgil in a

passage admirably imitated by Ariosto.


@@225

225. Inkstand supported by volutes

adorned with lion heads and

crowned by a cupid clutching

flowers

21.6cms. (total height); 10.6cms. (height ofvessel); 11 cms

(height of lid cxcludiiig part conccaled by vessel);

Bronze with a dark brown patma and traces of blai'k varnish. Hollow,

lost-wax, cast. The vessel fitted with a lead lining now decaying.

Chaplet holes beside the masks on the lid. Inscnbed '8. / -87 /

G' in white paint under one foot and '8 / -87 e' on undersid€

of lid .

Ii=nt by eI). E. Fortnllm in October 1894 and bequeathed 1899.

No. 1087 in his catalogue. Presumably purcha.sed after the

ct>mpilation in 1857 of his prelimimry catalogue, in which it is nt„

inc'luded.

In his notebook catalogue Fortniim dated the work to about

1580 but altcred this to 1560. In his large catalogue hc

changed 1560 to 1540. C. F. Bell, annotating the latter,

considered that it bclonged to the period 1550-75 and to

the 'School of sansovino'. The decorative motifs, especially

the female mask with drapery under her chin, arc indeed

characteristic of venetian ornamental art of the second half of

the sixteenth century and so too arc the fcaturcs of the Cupid.

Fortnum was aware of the similarity between his inkstand and

aiiother in the Victoria and Albert Museum (567-1865,

f'ormerly Soulages Collection) in which the same pattern of

vc'ssel is supported by three free-standing heraldic lions and

the same pattern of lid acts as a base for (or has been adapted

as a base for) a standing personification of Hope. Ncithcr the

lions nor the Hope seem as weu adapted to the desigli. There

are connections also with another inkstand, in the same

museum (5908-1859), also with a Hope, but this time with

Cupid supporters, and a spreading scroll-work base likc that

in the Ashmolean Museum. Bode also illustrates an inkstand

s_im±lar to this la.ttc[ (Italian Bron2;e Statuettes Of the

Rc7z¢G.jJ¢#cc (Ijondon,1907-12), ii, pl. clix-then in the

collection of otto Bcit, Ijondon, now at Blcssington in

Ireland, collection of sir Alfred Beit). On account of the

character of Hope hc was inclined to attribute it to Alcssandro

Vittoria. The statue must indeed be derived from an invention

by Vittoria or a contemporary but it was surely an artisan not

a leading sculptor who designed, or improvised, utensils of

secondary quality such as these. A version of the inkstand in

the Carrand Collection (no. 273), now in the Bargcllo,

Florence, was noted by Bell as a rcpljca of the version in the

Ashmolcan Museum but without a lid. A pair of seated putti

Cllltching flowers, one very close to the putto here, the other

in re\/'crse, arc included in an elaborate Italian inkstand and

Ct>vc'r, dated 1566 in raised letters, which was lot 83 in

William Newall's collection sold Christie's, Loiidon, 27-9

June 1922.


@@226

226. Inkwell (or basin) supported

by three sphinxes

6.6cms. (height)

Bronze with a dark chestnut patina. Brassy coIoilred mct<'l is c'poscci

where the undcrsidcs of the fce[ have liec'n filed. The ourfacc' t]f'thc

bowl has been tcxtured with a punch Much of'thi' bod}J of the bow I

is missing biit none of its rim. The bod}J is t>f' thin metal which is

t'orn around the losscs on the bowl '8 / -93 / e' is pamti'd lil

white on the intenor of' thi-t)o\\Jl.

Lent by C. D. F,. Fortnum in Oi'tober 1894. Bcqueathccl in 1899.

8. 1093 in his catalogues. The notebook catalogue lea\'cs a blank

after the word 'boughr' but it was prcsumal)l}' acquiri'd aftc'r 1857

in which year the preliminary cataloguc, in which it is not mentit)ned,

was compiled.

Fortnum rcgarded this, justly, as rhc' 'wrcck of a niost i'lcgaii[

model'. He dated it to the carly sixteenth century, but it was

probably made later. He si.cms onl}J to have dciided that it

was for ink when he came to classifi' his collection for the

notebook catalogue, and ill his large catalogue hc felt thc.

need to observe that it was 'well adapted for a salt cellar',

which suggests a lingering doubt. Bowls of this type siipp(>rted

by sphinzes are not uncommon. A silver sugar bowl in the

Wallace Collection (Xl lI.-C202) which is dated 1580, and

is dccorated with thrcc coats of arms one of which is possibl}'

of the Vitale Rizzi family of Milan, is very clt>se in design. A

bronze bowl, 8 cms. high, in which the sphinxes have morc'

wide-spread wings, pairs of lion feet (rather than one), and

coiled serpent tails, is in the Louvrc (OA. 2793). A vcsscl

with very similar sphiiixes to those in the Louvre, but with a

bowl highi'r oil their backs and of gadroolied form, is in

P+aLyenna' (Piccoli brt)nzi e Placchette del Museo Nag,ionale di

R¢pczj%¢ (Ravcnna' 1988), 37). While 'sueh bowls arc usually

dcscnbed as inkwells some of them are equipped with an

iipper st£'gc and de'schbed as perfume burners (an cxamplc,

in the Castiglioni Collcction, Vienna, is pl. 665 in L. Planiscig,

Venezianische Bildhauer der Renaissance (Vier+n'a, Berlin,

1921)). Thi' same sphinxes as those (>n thc I,ouvrc, Ravc"ia,

and Castiglioni bowls were somctimcs cmployed to support

thi' bases of urll-shaped calldlesticks of wllich thcrc arc a pair

in the Kri'ss Collection attributed to Roccatagiiata (J. Popc-

Hcnncssry ' Renaissance bronzes from the Samuel H. Kress

Co//ccf¢.o72 (Ijondon, ]965), no. 486, figs. 571-2, with a iiscful

list of t]thcr versions). Sphinxes of a gcncrally similar character

but smallcr scrvc as siipportcrs for an octagonal iiikstand with

a conica] covcr surmt>unted with a horse which is on 'Mr.

Morgaii's desk' in the old library in t.he Picrpolit Morgan

I,ibrar}', L\Tew York. It is decorated with the arms of notable

Vciicrian f'amilic's. Such sphinxes can also be firmly connccted

to Venice by their appcarani'c. on two impomnt and dated

works still in thc cit}J: the bronze support of the reliquary of

the Scilola di 'San Tcodoro (dated 1567) in the Accademia in

Vciiice and the paschal candelabrum dated 1570 and cast by

Andrca di Alessandro Bresciano for S. Spirito in lsola (now

in S. Maria dclla Salute). Sphinxes which arc particiilarly close

to those on tlic Ashmolcan's bowl (having oiie foot rather

than two), but larger in size, support bowls which form a

iinit in Venctiaii andirons (such as the pair in the Altman

bequest to the Metropt]litan Museum, New York~14.40~

694 alid 695), and arc somctimes f(]und as indcpendeiit pieces

(for example Wcmher Collection, Luton Hoo, no. 472).



@@227

227. Inkstand supported by three

helmeted sphinxes and crowned by

a warrior

21 i'ms. (height), 9 3 ciTis. (height of warnor), 9 2 cms (hc'Ight

of each foot-from paw to helmet)

Bronze, with a natural dark brown patina and a few trace's of

blackened varnish (on bellles of 'feet' cspeciall9 HOHou', lost-wax,

cast. Traces of solder below the vcss..I. In'scribed '8 / 92 / a' ill

white paint in'side the lid and '8-92 e=' along the back of one ftx>[.

Ijcnt by C. D. E. Fortnum in January 1888 and givc'n later jn rhc

samc' year. No.1092 in his catalogues. Bought in Florence in 1867

for £'4, according tt> his no[ebook catalogue.

Although hc c'stcemed it for Its completcncs'' a.nd condition,

r'ortnumwasawarethatthjsinkstandwas'roughlyi'xccuted'

Hc dated lt simply as late sixteenth century The vcsscl may

berelatedtoaniimbcrofothermodelsmwhichthe'snnilarly

punched basins arc siipported by sphinx-type siipports, for

example lot 121 at Sotheby's, I~ondon, 8-9 Dccembcr 1988.

The ornaments on these vessels may be decisively connccted

with those on documented and signed Vcnctian bronzes

(above all the great candelabra in S. Maria della Salute and

those of s. Stcfano, repeated in S. Glovanni Crisostomo,

whcrc both scroH arms and scroll helmet may be found). The

?.=::.±c_d.c_ontrappo:tootthewarrii;;===-t-i:.i'si:i:iuc==rs

inkstandappearsalsotobederivedfromslowlywinding

postiires probable in a A4¢„ (or „¢.#c"¢!) of the late

sixtccnth-century Venetian School.

.>-;:\ .


@@228

228. Inkstand supported by

juvenile tritons with a cover

crowned by Pomona

24.4 cms. (height); 15.6 cms. (height of figure from head to fooI);

9.5 cms. (height of juvenile trjtons)

Bronze of a slightly grey brown patina with traces of a blackclled

varnish. Hollow, lost-wax, cast, with thick walls, the tritons solid,

or at least filled up with core, above the chest. (',ast in two pleccs

(vessel with supporters; cover with Pomona). 'M.187' panted in

white inside the cover where there is also an o\'al label printed with

a black border and the initials 'E.G.R' above a linc below which is

inscribed in black ink '533'.

Bequeathed by J.I.'. Mallctt in January 1947. Rcccivi'd in the

Museum during the last week in May 1947. No. 187 In the invc'ntor}J

of his collection, valued at £60. 'Sotheby 1945. Ernest Raphael

Collection', according to Mallctt.s notes.

The inkstand is well executed in some passages, especially the

crisp grotesque masks and leaves in low flat relief contra'sted

with the punched ground of the cover~punching which

appears to be executed in the wax model. But the figure,

although clearly derived from an elegant model, had been

modified by an insensitive craftsman. From behind (and it is

an object designed to bc seen in the round) the drapery falls

behind the figurc's right leg without folds in such a manner

as to resemble a swollen leg. Mallctt described the bronze,

cautiously, as north Italian and of the second half of the

sixteenth century. It is likely to have been made in Venice or

the Vencto.

There is an inkstand in the Victoria and Albcrt Museum

(561-1865, in reserve) with very similar tritons who howcvcr

have hands on their chests and less well-formed tails. There

is also a candiestand in the Museo Nazionalc di Palazzo

Venezia, Rome (displayed without a number), in which still

more similar tritons have their right hand in the same position

as those in the Ashmolean but hold their tails in their left. In

general lobed or gadrooned vessels for pcrfumc burners or

inkstands supported by a trio (>f putti or half-animals seem to

have been popular in the Vencto in the sixteenth and

seventeenth centuries-see, among numerous examples, the

perfume burner or inkwell from the Castiglioni Collection

(L. Plariisciig. Venezianische Bildhatter der Renais5ant:e

(Vienna, Berhn, 1921), p[. 665) and the inkstand in the Wallace

Collection (S75), the former with sphinxes, the latter with

putti. The way that the tritons' fins and tails have been cut

through to form an irregular web-like foot may bc matched

in the no less disagreeable way in which sphinx supporters

are often terminated. The figure of Pomona is also clearly

related to Venetian sculpture. A statuette of a slightly larger

size in the Museo Poldi-Pczzoli shows a figure with similar

co79f7.¢ppoffo, revcrsed, and without the raised arm but with

one hand supported on a slim double-curved cornucopia

behind the projecting knee, thin loops of drapery, and a band

passing over the breast (FC. I/68). There is a similar figure

in the Musee dc la Renaissance in the Chateau of Ecoucn (CI,.

10931). Thcsc in turn may be related to larger sinuously po''ed figures t)f highly sophisticated execution p(>ssibl}'

designed for andirons, most notably the personification of

l'eace, draped, but with a cornucopia of very 'similar character,

in the Bayerisches Nationalmusoum, Munich, attributed tt>

Alcssandfo Vittoria, and the Veniis with a twisted dolphin in

place of the cornucopia in the Metropolitan Museum, New

York, signed 'LC.' and generally dvcn to Girolano Campana

(Irwin Untcrmycr Collection, 68.141.19). Figures with those

po.ses and siipports may also bc sccn t>n the skyline of

Sansovino's Marciana Librar}J in Veliicc and in miniature on

bronze utensils such as the salt in the Victoria and Albcrt

Museum (625-1865).


@@229

229. Inkstand with a female satyr

bathing an infant

24.2cms. (height); 14.8 cms (height cjf figiire); 22.8 cms. (length

of base); 17 8 cms. (width of base)

Bronze with a dark brown mtural patina and trai'c's of black or

blackened variii'sh. Hollow, lost-wc'x, cast. The figure is i'ast togcthc'r

with the platform designed to slicte olit of the base (now secured

with pins). The pail is cast separatel}r <md soIdered to the tray. Thl're

is a decayed lead lining in the pail. '8 / -89 / G' is pamred in

white on the side of the r.'ar of the base, on the tray, and on thL'

underside of the pail.

Lcnt by C. D. E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888 and gi\'eii I:'ter in the

same year. No. 1089 in his catalogucs. Bought b}' him in Rome in

1865 from Augu'sto Castellani, '\vith c]thcr bron/ji''', for £25

according to the notebook cat{ilogue.

Fortnum in his n(>rcbook caralt>guc toyed with the idea that

this inkstand dated from the first quarti'r or half of the

seveiitecnth century and was perhaps Roman, siiggcstmg, but

they striking out, 'in the manner of Bernini'. In his large

catalogue he rcgarded it as probably Florcntinc and froin the

second halfofthc sixteenth century. 'The influence of Michael

Angelo is manifest in the figures and the general design, while

the "giglio" at the sides probably refers it to IJ'lorcnce'. C. F.

Bell, annotating the large catalogue, evidently agreed and

assigned it to the School of Ammanati. Bode considered it

a's Vc:not+2[n Of e157'. (The Italian Bronze Statttette of the

Rc7?¢¢.ff¢7zcc, i (I,ondoii,1908), 78, fig. 94). J. D. Draper in

his 1980 revised edition of Bode considers it as 'probably

nineteenth century'.

The inkstand has also reccntly been attributed by Charles

Avcry to Giuseppe dc ljevis, a founder of verona whose name

appears (with dates ranging from 1585 to 1600) on modest-sized

bronzes, both domestic utensils such as bells and

mortars, and items of more 'soulptural character (narrative

rchefs, statuct[cs, claboratc inkstands, and a portrait bust).

De Lcvis may never have aspired to be an artist, and may

never have designed anything more than in(>dcst ornameiital

works, for whereas the bells and mortars bearing his mme

form a cohcrcn[ group, the more ambitious items arc less

homogeneous in style and some of them certainly repr(>ducc

models made by other sculptors. (See the cvidencc admirabl}r

prescntc'd in C. Avery, 'Giuscppe dc Ijcvis of vcrona: A

Bronze Founder and Sculptor of the Late Sixteenth Centur}'.

I. Bells and Mortars', Co#7?o¢.jTc#7 (Nov.1972),179-88, and

'2. Figure Stylc', Co"7¢o;ffc#r (Fcb. 1973), 87-97; but Avery

docs not consider the possibility that de Levis was only a

founder.)

It is certainly true that Giuseppc de Ijevis's name appears

on an inkstand with a narrati\Je character-featuring Christ

and the Samaritan woman beside a well, the well being adapted

for the ink (Sir ljcon Bagrit's collection, London, rcproduced

by Avery, op. cit. 87 and 96), but none of the ornamental

features of the Ashmolcan inkwell can be matched on this,

or on any other piece a'ssociated with him. The two crudely

modclled infants perched on the corricr of the inkstalid do resemble maiiy t)n Venetian bronzcs of the late sixtcciith

century and Ilo doubt thcrc was a v(]guc for narrative

inkstands [hcrc in that period. The inkstand would c'crta.inly

seem likely to bc Italian, and possibly Venetian of the lati-sixteenth

or early sevcntccnth century. The Florentine

association of the 'giglio' pointed oiit by Fortnum should

not bc ignored and the grotesque mask incorporated, togcthcr

wit.h a cardinal's hat, in the cartouche framing the arms is of'

a type often foimd in Florentine ornamcnt. On the other hand

the vo[utcs combined with inverted cornui'opiac would sccm

to bc a motif invciited by Gugliclmo dclla Porn for the tomb

of P(>pe Paul Ill Famese-this part of which had bccn

cxccuted bcf(trc I 549. The lily, was a Farnesc emblem and

payments were made in 1551 for a 'S[atua dclla Bacchcssa'.

belonging to t.he Famesc to bc taken t-o [hc 'edsa di fra

Gugliclmo Scu]torc' (A. Bcrtolotti, A#£.f}z. /o77¢C7¢7'd4. a Ao7#¢,

2 vo1s. (Milan,1881), i.133). Thcrc is also a conncctioli with

I-'rancc which helps to suggest a date.

As was first pt)inted out by Anthony Radclifi'c in a lcttcr of

13 October 1971 two engravings showing a very similar satyr

and child back and front on a naturalistic ground (presumably

added by the engraver) wcrc included in the 47?f¢.g#¢r¢.¢c

fz4Pc//ecf¢./G.f po77¢.»#c#/¢ by Paulus Pctavius (Paul Pctau) which

seems to have been published in 1610, although some of the

plates are dated 1609. I'etau (1568-1614) was one of the

ministers of King Henry IV of France and a kccn antiquary

aiid numismatist. Thi.' volume was perhaps the first set of

illustrations ever made of the contents of a collection. (Scc

J. Yvon, 'Petau numismate', Gflzcz}g dcr ¢c¢z4:x:-¢7tr (Scpt.

1966), LXVIII, no.108, pp. I 13-30.) This particular item

was evidently regarded by Petau as an antique bronze. Hc

may well have acquired it in, or from, Italy. It must have

been well known in France for it was reproduced again ---- and

more accuratelv-bv Charles Patin (Carolus Patinus) in his

lmperatorttm .Rom.anorum: Nunismata ex acre medj,ae et

acz.#G.ow¢e/or7"¢e (Paris,1697), opposite p.129. Bcrnard de

Montfaucttn also reproduced and briefly discussed the

sculpture in the supplcmcnt to vol. i of his 4»}¢.¢#G.fe' Gap/¢.g„c'c

published in 1724 (160, pl. 61), still assuming it to bc' antique.

It may be that the bronze of this group acquired by the

Mus€c du Ij(>uvrc in 1910 (OA. 6413) is from Pctau's

collection. It certainly corresponds closely to the engraving

in Patin. Th€rc is another version t)f the faun in the Rt)val

Scottish Museum, Edinburgh, which was acquired in I,bndon

in 1883 (83-47-I). Both seeln to have bccn known to

IJ'ortnum who observed in his hrgc edtaloguc, '1 do not know

another [inkstand] of this model, although I have sccn other

replicas of the female and her inf'ant without the bascmcnt'.

The bronze in the I.,ouvre is 14.3 cms. high, and simpler and

smootlier than the figure in the inkstaiid, without for instance

so many markings in the fur. It is also of a diffcrcnt alloy,

with a high copper content, where the blackened varnish has

been worn. The example in Edinburgh is 15.8 cms. high,

coarser than the others and with different legs.


@@230

230. Inkstand with a seated draped

female figure holding tablet and

stylus

21.2 cms. (height); 16.2 cms. (height of figure)

Bronze with a pale brown natural patlna, retaining traces of a red

lacquer varnish in parts blackened. Hollow, lost-wax, cast. The

figure, seat, and tablet arc cast as one piece. Inside the upper section

'8 / ---- i90 / G' is painted in white and there is a loz,engc-shaped

paper label with blue border lines and '8 / 1090' inscribed in ink.

On the underside of the wooden tray '8 / -90 / G=' is also

painted in white.

Ijclit by C. D. E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888 and given later in the

same year. No.1090 in his catalogues. Said in his notebook

catalogue to have been 'bought in Paris' for the sum of £12.

Described by Fortnum as 'probably Flor€ntine' and of the

scventcenth ccn[ury, but without reasons. He perhaps had

in mind the 'exaggcrated scroll work maskLSLthe mask

clement of which is only apparent a[ second glance-which

siipport each corner of the stand, for they are of a grotcsque

design (ultimately dependent upon Michelangelo, cf. Nos.

62 and 63) popular in Florence. W. Bode (J£%/¢.¢79 Bro7¢zc

LS£¢Z-%c#c ¢.7G }¢G RG73%G.ff¢7¢cc, (London, 1907-12), ii,

CXLIV), describing a related inkwell in the Kaiser Friedrich

Museum, Berlin (now Staatliche Musccn, Berlin-Dahlem,

199z re'sowe), interpreted the figure, reasonably, as a

personification of Clio, Muse of History. He had previously

published this bronze in P¢», 2 (1896), as Venctian from the

circle of Jacopo Sansovino (p. 262). He regarded the

Ashmolcan version as an inferior replica, but it is of comparable

if not superior, quality. The handiing is remarkably similar-

tor instance in the way that the f'ringed hem of the robe is

caught up over the figure's left ankle and the sketchy

rcndcring of its jagged disorder on the ground behind. There

are many differences, however. The Berlin figure has a

trumpet and carries (rather uncomfortably) a serpent biting

its own tall together with the tablet (inscribed 'DEus /

INPRINclplo / FTc'); al'so, other tablets are placed on the base,

one of which she may be imagined as reading. The corner feet

of the Berlin stand arc simpler scrolls with masks of male fauns

sticking their tongues out. Such feet are found in ornamental

bronzcs made in Venice and Bode suggcsted the influence of

Sansovino. The tight angularity of the pose does in fact recall

in a general way the personification of 'Sc#/P£#7G enthroned

between the broken pediment of Alessandro Vi[toria's wall

tomb in S. Zaccaria, Venice (competed 1603 but designed as

carly as 1560)-reproduced L. I'laniscig, Vc'79cz¢.¢72¢.i.c47c

B¢./d¢¢#c7' dc;y Re7¢¢¢.jfzz7?cc (Vienna, Berlin,1921), pl. 570,

andFraLnccsco C,css;i, Alessarrdr(i Vittoria, architetto e stttccatore

J'525-J608 (Trent,1961), pl. 54. The fall of the drapery and

its fringe on the base arc reminiscent of that in the statuette

of W¢7¢fGr attributed with good reasons to Vittoria

(K##f£¢¢.rfo7'¢.fc¢cf A4#fc#7#, Vienna, 5664). There is also a

similarity between the figure and a standing statuette of Hapc

in the Victoria and Albert Museum (7875-1861) in type of

garment, style of drapery, and sketchy modelling. For another

instance of an inkstand ornamented by a very differently

modelled female personification with a tablet see Yvonne

Ha'ckehoroch. 13ronz,es, Other Metalworle and Scttlpture in

the I"}in Untermyer Cjollection (LDndon' 1962). p. xxx 2[nd

fig. 69, now reserve collection Metropolitan Museum

(64.101.14598). J. D. Draper in his 1980 revised edition of

Bode (op. cit.) describes the Berlin inkstand as 'possibly

Roman and of the late sixteenth or early seventeenth century'.


@@231

231. Inkstand (aLnd perhaps

candlestand) in the form of a putto

with two masked horn-shaped

containers

17.2 cms. (height)

Bronze with a chocolat-e to pale tan natural patina. Hollc)w, lost-wax,

cast, apparently as a single unit. W'ood jammc'd in the uppei.

part of the intenor. On proper left of rhc rock seat '8. / -82 /

e' is palnted in white. The detail appears to bc almost all in the

wax model-that of the hair is especially charActeristic of' a soft

material easily tooled.

Lent by C. D. F,. Fortnum in October 1894 aiid bequeatlied by him

in 1899. No.1082 in his catalogues. 'Bought Bol{]gna 1853 for a

trifle.' But, acct]rding to his preliminary catalogue of 185z it was

bought there in 1851 (p. 45). Recorded b}' Fortnum as mounted

on a black wood stand now un[raced.

Fortnum described this in his large catalogue as 'a highly

artistic and graceful model, the work of a masterly hand and

probably unique as it is cast "a la circ perduc". The idea is

doubtless derived from the antique figure of the yt]ung

Hercules stangling the serpents, but greatly modified in

expression and action and in the details.' Hc considered it as

perhaps Florentine and of the late fifteenth or early sixteenth

century. In his notebook catalogue he had 'spcculated that one

of the horns was for a vessel containing ink and the other for

a candle or a vessel containing sand. C. F. Bell, in pencil

additions to Fortnum's catalogue, n(]ted that thcrc was a

similar figure in Berlin biit with serpents (hc was perhaps

thinking of the figure in the Staatliche Musecn, Bcrliii-

Dahlem, inv. no. 2654), and also that there was an inferior

replica of the inkstand but without the horn in the child's

right hand in the Carrand Collection (G. Sangiorgi, Co//GCJ;o7¢

C¢77¢7¢4J a" B¢rgrc//a (Rome,1894), pl. 46, and no. 216 in

the Bargcllo Catalogue of 1898 where it is said to bc Venetian

of the sixtccnth century). The character of the picrced fric7jc

of the base composed of masks and scrolls suggest a later

date than Fortnum supposed and this is supported by

comparison with a curious table utensil in the Walters Art

Gallery, Baltimore (54.620). This ct>nsist.s t]f [hrec iiudc putti

seated on a round pierced base of identical design, each

holding a masked ht]rn vessel very similar to those in the

Ashmolean inkstand. Balanced on top of their heads are the

scrolled legs of a tripod, each terminating in a faun-at.Iantis

holding, with both arms raised, the same ball. If, as seems

likely, this piei'e was made by the same founder as the

Ashmolcan inkstand then the tripod handlc' would certainly

sLiggest a date in the second half of the 'sixtecnth century. I

have not beeii able to trace the antique Hercules group which

F(>rtnum had in mind, bLit the pose and expression of this

boy must originally have had some such dcspcratc pretext.

Attached to the sides of the high altar of the Duomo in

Sicna arc a pair of bronze candlebrackcts in the form of child

angels emerging from ai'anthus and 'supporting pans upon

rhcir heads. Thcy re'scmble the Ashmt>lcan inkstand, both in

294

the modcllii'g of the body, the treatment of the hair, and,

most signifii.antly, thi' inotif of thc' leafy mdsk (used whcrc

thi' i'andlcbrackcts arc attached to the altar). The Sicncse

angels arc likely to date from bctwccn 1527 and 1536 when

the prcscnt high altar was constructed. It has rci-ently bccn

proposed that they might be the work of the great Siciicsc-paintcr

Domcnico Bcccafumi, whose chief activity as a

inodcller and bron7.c foimder belongs to the four years

previous to his death in 1551 when hc crcated the eight angels

for the columns nearest to the same high altar (A. Bagnoli,

'Id Scultura di Domenico Bcccafumi', in I)oovc72¢.co Bccc¢/#ow;

c 2./ f#t7 fc7„Po' ed. A. Bagnoli cf ¢/. (catalogue of the exhibition

held in vcirious locations in Siena,1990), 531-5). Ill favour

of this proposal is Beccafiimi's fondness for leafy masks. They

adorn the bronze consoles supporting six of' the angels and

are also foimd in his paintings+)n the pedestal of the loom

in the painting of Pc"c/apG in the Scminar]o Patriarcale, Venii'e,

of e1514 and in the pilasters of t.hc tcmplc in thc fresco of'

thi. Marriage of the Virgin in the Oratttrio (>f Sam Bernardint>

of e1518 (ibid.10z 610). The twisted pose ofthc Ashmolcan

pu[[o is certainly reminiscent of the wriggling children ill

Reccafumi's paintings.

Table utensil. Waltcr's Art Gallery,

Baltimore, Maryland


@@232

232. Inkstand in the form of a

triton astride a tortoise carrying a

whelk shell

15.2 cms. (height)

Bronze, of a high copper content, with warm chestnut natural patina

and traces of black or blackened vanish in the hollows. Hollow,

lost-wax, cast. The turtle's head with the attached tray were cast

separately. No evidence of tooling. Two thin iron chaplets arc Vlsible

in the interior of the cast, one across the triton's hips and the other

across the triton's right 'leg'. There is a small hole beside his right

'leg' towards the tail. '8 / ~83 / eF' is painted in white at back

of the tortoise to left of its tail.

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum on 20 March 1888, given later in the

same year. No.1083 in his catlogucs. '1 bought it of Augusto

Castellani with other bronzes that had belonged [o his father

|Fortunato Pio Castellani,1793-1865], in 1865.' The notebook

manuscript contains the additional information that it cost i.10.

The shells would, presumably, have bccn fitted with ink pots.

The tortoisc's head scrv€s as a handle for a drawer which

pulls out to reveal a tray for sand. Fortnum observed, justly,

of this bronze that it was a 'bold vigorous work cast ; /¢ cz.rc'

and was a 'bold model suggestive of the manner of Bernini'.

In his large manuscript catalogue he described it as 'perhaps

Roman' and from the end of the sixteenth century or of the

carly seventeenth century. In the earlier notebook catalogue

he had struck out sixteenth century and placed the bronze in

the sevcntccnth, no doubt noticing the analogies with

Bcrnini's tritons (and cspeciauy his Triton Fountain in Piazza

Barbcrini of 1642-3). The rippling vitality of surface and

complex plasticity do however seem possible in a sixteenth-century

work on this scale, although if it were a larger work

one might hesitate to date it bcforc Bernini. Bode, who

pubtished the Ashmolean version in his Jf#/¢.¢# Bro7}zc

Sf#f#c#GJ a/£¢c RG"¢¢.£j¢»cc, (London,1907-12) ii, pl.

CLXXI, considered it to be Venetian of about 1575.

Fortnum was aware that there were many modern copics-

'more or less varied in detal'. Noting that thcsc had bccn

made in Rome where his was acquired hc supposed that his

bronze might have served as the model for them. Five of

these copies or fakes arc identified below. Augusto Castellani

right have made them. What Fortnum, and indeed

subsequent scholars, falled to observe is that the Ashmolean

bronze is related to a remarkable group of fanciful sketchy

inkstands all of which must have come from the same

workshop. One other bronze in the group sccms [o have

consisted of a triton on a tortoise, but it was typically varied,

with the shell held aloft by the triton pt>inting in another

direction (illustrated in Bode, op. cit., as in Rodolphe Kann

Collection, Paris, but present whereabouts unknown). The

triton, however, is also included in an inkstand in the

Philadelphia Museum of Art (30-I-26), riding a dolphin-like

sea monster. The modelling of the chest and face is the same

as the triton in the Ashmolean, so is the size, and hc holds a

very sinilar shell-but at a different angle and with his arms

further back. This group can in turn be related to another in which the same sea monster is ridden by a putto balanc'ing

the same type of shell iipon the mons[er's head. There are

examples (>f this model in the collection of the priiicc of

Ijiechtcnstein (no. 262; Bode, op. cit. ii, pl. CLXX, wrongly

captioned as in the Benda Collection), in the Kunsthistorischcs

Museum, Vienna (9117), in the Victoria and Albert Museum

(A. 7-1966), formerly in the Capel Cure Collection (see

Sothcby, Jcondon,10 December 198z no. 35, illustrated),

and with S. Franses of 82 Jermyn St., London. There are

variations among all of these, in the attitude of the putti

especially (who in the Vienna and Liechtenstein versions ride

sideways). There is also a related model in the Fitzwilliam

Museum, Cambridge (M5-1932; Bode, op. cit., iii' pl.

CCI,XI, wrongly captioned as in the Victoria and Albert

Mu'soum), in which the sea monster carries another sea

monster which balances a shc[l on its tail. All these bronzcs

have the same very coppery metal, the same traces of black or

blaekcned varnish, the same waxy quality, with no cvidcnce

of Cooling (and occasional traces of very fine casting seams).

The Ashmolcan bron'/,e has been examined beside that in the

Victoria and Albert Museum: the treatment of the hair of the

putto and that of the trit(>n was found to be strikingly similar

and the whelk shells of six spirals were the same size

(10.15 cms. in length) and looked as if they came from the

same mould (which incidentally may well have bccn taken

from a real shell).

The riding putti inkstands have of course long bccn

recognized as belonging [o a group (what is new here is the

extension of the group to include the Ashmolean,

Philadelphia, and Kann bronzcs). M. Leithe-Jasper has

suggested that the putti might bc. the work of Adriacn dc

Vries or from his circle and has compared them and their

'dolphins' with those in the Hercules Fountain in Augsburg

(see G;¢ow4o/og#¢, exhibition catalogue (Vienna,1978), 310-

11, and Renaissance Master Bronzes from the Kunsthistorisches

M#fc#7#, VG.c7g»¢ (Washington, Los Angeles, Chicago,

1986), 229-30). A. Radchiffc has noted the similar figures

(tritons as well as putti) and 'dolphins' adorning the fountain

(designed by Carlo Maderno and Giovanni Fontana) in the

Piazza della Madonna, Loreto. The casting of thcsc by

Tarquinio and Pictro Paolo Jacomctti had been completed by

1622 (see entry in the catalogue for Sothcby's sale cited

above). The inventions may well have bccn circulating in a

diminutive form before they wcrc executed on a large scale

at Loreto. In style there is no close connection with the figures

at Loreto, but still less with any bronzcs by de Vries which are

always distinguished by chisclling of a kind that is not found

here.

It remains to describe the modern versions which Fortnum

suspected wcrc made in Rome (quite possibly uiider the

auspices of the Castcllani family who owned Fortnum's

version). They differ froin the Ashmolean group in that there

is no smaller shell balanced on the tall, the shell above the

head is of a different character and points another way, and

there is a small infant triton riding in front of the large one.

The surface is also diffcrenr, having been cxtcnsivcly tt>oled

after casting with punched and chisclled textures on the sheus.

They are heavy casts and of a brassy alloy. One of this type,

- ,-u r'-uiloiiiu uy

L I'lani'%ig in 'Brt>nzi ininori dl Lconc ljeonj', Ded¢/a, 7

(1926-7), 554, and another was piiblished, also with an

attribution to Lconi (I 509-90), by Y. Hackenbroch / R"M

-I, I, .

whii'h pa'ssed in 1902 froin the Propcrt Collection lnt(] that

of'W Newall, wa'' exhibited at the Royal Academy i.11 the

Willtcr of 1904 and again .lt the Burlington Flne Acts Club

in 1912 (nt). z pl 32, Hi the-Illustrated cata]oguc of 1913).

It had the iiiirials '8 C.' and the date 1545 on irt presumably

Intended to suggest the authorship of Cellini lt wa's sold a'S

lot 40 at Chnstie's, IjDndon, 27-9 June 1922, and was then

placed on loan ln [hc Ashmolean Museum in 1951 by a

collect(>rmStow-on-tlic-W(>Id.Aliotlierbroiizcofthisrype

collection of R. Weinjngcr in Berlin was published by

L. Plani't'io in 'R.,'.i: _:__

_+ ...., uL,u„ L', LiTulii \ I Du¥-yu), by Y. Hackenbroch (B„jeeef,

°c:,:,e[re,r#he:a('Twr°'rn:'a^:d'Snc:!!tu;;;;;h;i%i'n"i;t'et;;;r

(,'o//cc}Go% (L(>ndon, ]962), p. xxx, pl. 63). The latter bronze

was acquired by the Mctropolitdn Museum but dcaccessioned

ui 1982. There I.' also a version jn the re'erve collection of

[heWaltcr'sAItGaller»Baltimore(54.147),onewasacquired

by the Gctty Miiscum Gee 4/" with the I,edcrer Collectlon

(85.SB 67-see [hc /. P%#/ Gcrty M%fe%ee /o2„7¢¢/, 14

(1986), 264, no 254), and anofhcr was lot 171 at Sotheby's,

8Decembcr1989.Thedistrustinspiredbycontactwiththese

ca'sts has perhaps infllienced some scholars in their estimate

ofthcAshlnolcanbron7.cwhjchJ.D.Draper,forexample,

describes as 'probably ninetecnth century' in his 1980 revi'sed

edition of Bode.


@@233

233. Inkstand in the form of a

mermaid holding a receptacle for an

inkwell

13.5 cms. (height); 7.8 cms. (width); 11.5 cms. (length)

Bronzc with a green patina worli in parts to a pale brown natural

patina. Hollow, lost-wax, cast, in one piece, pcrforated in the

interior of the well. Some i'orc remains in the intcrior of the mermaid

where the mctal h.is also severely oxidized (this was treated in 1987

by David Armitage of the Department of' E<ist-cm Art). For earlier

tTcatment see below. 'R.-8l / e' is paiiited in white in the

interior.

Ij€nt by C. D. E. Fortnum on 7 Januar}J 1888 And given htc'r in the

same year. Bought by him in Florence in 1867 f'oi. £5. No.1081

in his catalogues.

r'ortniim owried another inkstaiid of an idcntical pattern which

hc had bought in Perugia in 1851 (preliminary catalogue, 46,

no. 7)-no.1080 in his catalogucs. This he sold in the l880s

to Henry J. Pfungst. It was no. 36 in the Dcjc7.¢.P£¢.pc

Catalogtte of a Small Collection Principally of Xvth and

XVJ£¢ Ce#£#ry Bro#2;cf (no date) and was st>ld to the dealers

I)urlacher and A. Werthcimer in 1900 and by them to

Pierpont Morgan in whose collection it was catalogued by

Bodc. This version is now in the Metropolitan Museum, New

York (32.100.191, in reserve). The only difference which

li'ortnum noted betwccn the two inkstands was the abLsencc

of any arms ini'ised on the shield of no.1080. His first view

\vas that t-he iiikstands \vcrc Italiaii and of e1560 (preliminary

catalogue), but he came to regard both as probably Vcnctian

t>f the carly sixteenth centiiry, i't>mparing them to the standard

sockets of 1500-5 in [hc Piazza di San Marco signed by

Alessandro Leopardi (thinking presumably of the sea creaturcs

in the lowcst band of f'riczc). Fortnum was also aware of a

variant on the in(>dcl in which the mermaid plays a stringed

instrument. Among the versions of the two models arc the

following: Victoria and Albert Museum, Salting Bequest, M.

693-1910, with a stringed instrument-no doubt the version

known to Fortnum; Philadelphia Museum of Art,1930-1-32

from the F,dmond Foulc Collection (W. Bode, 87'o722;c

Sf¢f#G#Gf, ii (Ijondon, 1908), pl. CI,XIX), also with an

instrument and with arms in thc shield; Wallacc Collcction

(S. 87-I . G. M2\nr\, Wallace Collection C,atalogttes: Scttlptttre

(Ijondon,1931), 35); Collection of Baron and Baroness

Schrdder and of Mr and Mrs Ijippmann, the former cxhibited

Burlingtt]n Fine Arts Club 1928-9, the latter sold to them

by Duvcen ]932 (iliformation from Wallacc Collection files);

Metropolitan Museum, New York (30.95 . I 11), with an

instrument. In addition C. F. Bell in a manuscript addition to

Fortnum's large MS catalogue noted a version with an

instrument in 'Musco Civico Bologna' and another there

rcproducing the lower part of the model but with the fish

tails terminating in mon'ster head'¢ with the infant Hercules

on top of them.

Bode was inclined to give a later date to these inkstands

than Fortnum suggested, cataloguing the Morgan and another version as School of Jacopo Sansovino. J. D. Draper

in his 1980 revision of Bode suggests 'possibly north Italian

of the late sixteenth century' . The version in the Victoria and

Albert Museum is currently labelled as 'German second half

of the sixteenth ccntury'. It is hard to find parallels in larger

and better-documented sculpture, but the ornament ar(]und

the base is suggestive of the late sixteenth century (compare

the compartments of venetian stucco or carved wooden

ccilingsofthelidsofc¢f5o#G).Anltalianonginissuggcsted

by the provenance of r'ortnum's pieces, and also by the

evidence of the arms. Those on the Ashmolcan's piece were

identified by Fortnum as of the Malatesta family and he

speculated whether the inkstand had belonged to either

Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta (d. 1543) or his son Fjrcole

(d.1598). C F. Bell, however, noted that the arms were those

of a Sigismondo Malatesta who died in 1468, the quarfers

not being carried by later members of the family. Suspicions

aroused by this anachronism were strengthened by the

artificial appearance of the green patina and confirmed by the

cleaningofthelatter.theinkweHwasremovedfromexhibition

in September 1901 It should be pointed out that both false

arms and a false patina can bc added to a genuine bronze by

an unscrupulous dealer and this piece has certainly not been

proven a forgery. Moreover it is not certain that the arms are

false. A connection with the Malatesta does seem possible.

The chesquy bends seem to have been used more by the

Bolognese branch of the family than by that of Rimini as

Michael Maclagan has pointed out to me.

The musical instrument held by the mermaid in some

versions might also help with assessing the date. David Green

and Jeremy Montagu have pointed out to me that this must

be some form of cittern 'since it has the characteristic

"buckles" at the junction of neck and body, the appropriate

shapeofpegbox,anditappearsthattheremightbeaslight

"foot" at the end beneath the Mermaid's right forearm' The

oddityisthescallopedoutlineunusualinacitternbutfound

in a Paduan /;% d¢27¢%G¢ (Kunsthistorisches Museum,

Vienna) of e1590 and in a painting by Bartolommeo

Passarotti of 1{¢.#g D¢vjd in Palazzo Spada of 1563-70. It

seems likely to be a fanciful Invention of the artist, but if so

it is one which is inspired by instruments in fashion all over

Europe in the late sixteenth century, especially in Italy where

arevivalofintercstinthecittemseemstohavcbeguninabout

1574 when Paolo Virchi's JJ Py;7%o J;¢~ d¢. £¢Go/¢}~ dj

c¢.#¢#7'¢ was published.

Comparison with the version in the Wallace Collection

reveals that the two are identical in size; the interior with

residual core and perforations and the colour of metal are alst>

verysimilar.ThcAshmoleanversionhasslightlymoresharply

cutmouldingsaroundthebaseandcartouche,andthefeathers

on the helmet appear in the Wallac€ Collection version merely

as flaps (this is also true of the version in Philadelphia) The

version in the Victoria and Albert Museum differs in having

minorvanationsinthelow€rornamentationofthestand,and

the mermaid there does not wear a helmet. The version with

a musical instrument in the Metropolitan Museum has an

entirelydifferenttreatmentoftheheadwiththehairstanding

uP.


@@234

234. Inkstand in the form of a lion,

a tree stump, and a fortress

14.2cms. (height); 18.6cms. (width)

Bronze with a chestnut brown iiatural patina, darker in the hollows.

Hollow cast in three parts.. the lion's head and the lower front

poltionofthefortressbeingseparate,thcformerhingedasalid,

the latter serving as the front of a drawer. Small regular holes in the

bronze (particularly evident in the tree stump but also, for example,

below the lion's chin and beside his left rear paw) are from chaplet

pins.

Presented by Mr Henry I. Pfungst FSA in 1908 (A###¢/ RGPorf

(1908), 8-9) See also I'rcliminary F,ssay and Nos 201, 203, 233,

427.

Thestumpofthetreeiscontrivedtoholdpens,theinkvcssel

would presumably have been in the hon's head and the sand

in the castle drawer. C. F. Bell recorded the acquisition in the

A#7}%¢/ RcPo77 as 'probably Venetian in the style of the

school of Alessandro Vittoria, early seventccnth century' It

could be earlier, and certainly could be later, in date and

there seems to us no very strong stylistic or technical grounds

for considering it as Venetian.


@@235

@@236

235 and 236. Pair of vase

candlestands each supported by

three kneeling putti

24.6 cms (height)

Bronze with a tan to dark brown natural patim. Hollow, lost-wax,

cast. The vase foot, purti, and base arc cast as a separate unlt, the

body of the vase is cast as another unit, in both cases. No. 235 is of'

a richcr colour and has numi'ro'Is holes where chaplets have fallen

out, beside the masks in the vase and in the legs and chest of the

putti. One of the putti in this piece has also lost a portion of the

forehead. '8 / -22/ G' and '8 / -23 / e' paintecl in white on

the bases.

Ij€nt by C. D. E. Fortlium on 20 March 1888 and given later in the

same year. Nos.Io22 and 1023 in his catalogucs. Bought f'rom

'Forest Ijondon'-for whom see Nos. 264-5. The date is givcn ill

the prelimimry catdlogue as 1856 (p. 46). The large catalt>guc

mentions eboni7jed wooden stands f'roin whii'h the candlestands have

since been detached.

As Fortnum noted, there is a very similar pair of candlestands,

from the Soulages Collection, in the Victoria and Albert

Museum (in reserve, 559 and 560-1865). Close examination

reveals slight diff'crences: [hc swags in that pair seem to hang

from the boys' hands whereas in the Ashmolean's pair they

come from under the base. The vasc. handles are also more

inelegant in thc Ashmolean's pair. Another pair, equally close,

are in the Museo Nazionale di Palazzo Vcnezia in Rome

(displayed without numbers). The same three supporters arc

employed in an inkstand, supporting a lobed bowl with a

cover crowned by a statuette of Fame (lot 74, Sotheby's,

London, 7 July 1988, illustrated).

The separately cast upper part of the cand[cstands-the

vase without its base-is found in (]thcr compositions whcrc

the supporters are sphinxes (see for examples the pair in the

National Gallery of Art, Washington-illustrated in J. Pope-

Hennessy, Rena,issance Bronz,es from i:he Samttel H. Kress

Co//ecfG.o72 (London,1965), no. 486, figs. 571, 572-where a

hst of other examp[cs is also supplied). Very similar sphinx

supports are found in a perfume burner in the Walker Art

Gallery, Liverpool (no. 6236, illustrated in their Fo7.c¢j7z

C¢f4l/o27z" (1977) , 471), where the upper register is supported

by thrcc knccling boys not unlike those in the Ashmolean's

candlestand but with one hand on hip and completely nude-sce

the entry by A. Radchiffe in the catalogue of the Arts

Council exhibition of 1975, 47¢d7c¢ P#//adz.a, 60, no.108.

This same type of sphinx, supphied with a scroll leg and lion

paw, is a popular motif in inkstands and similar utensils (see Nos. 226 and 227). Pope-Hcnncssy observes of-the

Washington candlcstands that they 'arc correctly ascribed by

Valentiner to the Roccatagliata workshop'. Nothing is known

of this workshop, and the few works ccrtamly by Roccatagliata

are of superior quality to any of the utensils surveyed here,

Fortnum's description 'n(>rth Italian, of about 1570~90'

sccms prudent, although Bell was right in his annotation of

the catalogue to point to late sixteenth-century Venice, for

the ornamental vocabulary in this group of brt>nzes is, as

pointed out in No. 226, certainly Venetian.

Fortnum also cited the opinion of J. C. Robinson that this

type of candlestand may be cast from models carved in wood

(see Ftoit;mson's C,atalogtte Of the Soulag,ges C,ollection . . .

Exhibited to the Pttblic at the Mttsettm of Oriilamental Art,

A4l¢7i/froro#g4 Ho#fc (I,ondon,1856),112, under no. 347

with refcrencc also to no. 346, the pair of candlestands earlier

rcfcrred to as now in the Victoria and Albert Museum).

However, it sh(>uld also be pointed oLit that the very

popularity of trios t>f identical supporters reflects the relati\Jcly

new ease with which (since the technical innovations associated

with Antico) hollow wax modc[s could bc cast from the same

model, assembled and then used for lost-wax bronzc casts by

the foundries of north-east Italy. From the account of variants

given above, it will also be clear that the various components

in an item such as this were valued by founders for their

versatility. That these three boys wcrc not originally designed

for the purpose they arc given here is strongly suggcsted by

the meaningless truncated tail of drapery behind each one.

I owe to Anthony Radcliffe, the observation that

candlcstands in the Renaissance, being utensils for the writing

table, not for the chimney-piece or dining table, do not in

general exist in pairs. The different colour and the absence

of equivalent chaplet holes in No. 236 suggests that it might

bc a pair made in the ninctecnth century. If so, its accuracy

must make connoisseurs despair.


@@237

237. Seal with handle in the form

of a nude terminal putto

9.05 cms. (height); 2.75 cms. (length of seal); 2.2 cms. (width of

seal)

Bronze with a dark brown natural patina, palest where handled.

Probably solid cast. Crudely chiselled. The plinth of the term is

fixed to a brass seal. The boy's head is flattened as if for fixing to

another seal. '8. / 1148 / G' is painted in white on the upper

surface of the seal behind the boy's feet.

Ijent by C. D. E. Fortnum on 7 January 1888 and given later in the

same year. No.1123 in his catalogues. 'Bought in Florcnce',

according to the noteb'ook catalogue.

Considered by Fortnum, surely rightly, to be Italian and

probably of a late sixteenth- or early seventeenth-century

date. The seal is engraved with an oval shield of a.rms (barry

of six) and the initial letters 'A' and 'M' above and below. A

manuscript correction, perhaps by Bell, interprets the ornate

'M' as an 'AG'. But the 'A' and 'G' arc. not above and below

but to either side in the strapwork of the frame. Although the

last numeral of Fortnum's number is slightly broken it

certainly reads '1148'. No less clearly the number in his

catalogue is 1123. The error may have arisen from the fact

that he catalogued it next to 1147. Hc may also have. intended

to change it to 1148, for he was not sure into which category

to place his seals-the finest he in fact classified as plaquettes.

A bronze seal handle in the form of an armless female herm

is in the Kunstgcwerbemuseum, W. Berlin (99.127), labelled

as 'Vcnctian, late sixteenth century'. Michael Maclagan points

out that the blazon on this shield \vas u'sed by two Italian

families, the Arrighi and Fcranti.


@@238

238. Double seal with a handle in

the form of a nude putto standing

on one seal and suppordng the other

6.I cms. (height); 2.7 cms. (length of upper seal); 2.05 cms.

(width of upper seal); 2.2 cms. (length of lower seal); L7 cms.

(width t>f lower 'seal)

Bronze with a dark brown natural patina. Probably solid cast. Crudcl}'

chiselled. There are some dents in the surface of the metal-most

prominently in the boy's right leg. '81147 ff' is painted in white

on top of base (i.c. back of lower seal) by boy's heels.

From the collection of c. D. E. Fortnum, but it is unccrta]n when

given or bequeathed. No. I 147 in his catalogue. Perhaps acquired

after the compilation of the large manuscript catalogue in the

l880s-not recorded in the notebook catalogues.

Considered by Ft>rtnum, surely rightly, to bc Italian t]f the

seventeenth century, but not impossibl}' of the sixtccnth

century. The scats are incised with a shield of arms bearing an

ox passant above which arc thrcc stars of six points (cstoilcs)

and the initials N. A. on the smaller (lower) seal and G. 8. on

the larger (upper) seal. C' F. Ben in a manuscript addition to

Fortnum's large manuscript catalogue noted that the 'arms

would appear to be of the Bossi family of Milan. Gules, an

ox passant argent. Some mcmbcrs of the family seem to have

borne differences, the thrcc stars may perhaps be among

them, in chief.' Michael Maclagan notes, 'This is all very well

and most Bossi families bore an (.)x. But none of them in

Renc'sse or in Sc(]rza have stars as well. The initials would

support letter 8: but I don't think heraldically oiic can go

further than "possibly for Bossi". '


@@239

239. Handle in the form of a

turbanned black boy wearing a

quiver, emerging from a foliate base

9.05 cms. (height of bronze); 1 cm. (height of base); 3.5 cni''.

(length and width of base)

Bronze with a natural pale brown patina and traces of blackened

varnish in the hollows. Hollow, probably lost-wax, cast, bronze

with some perforations in the thin wall at the figure's back. There

arc holes of regular size in the turban and leaves apparently drilled

put of the metal. Bolted to a block of porphyry. '8-75 a.' is painted

in white on the quiver.

Given by C. D. E. For[num on 7 January 1888. No.1075 in his

catalogues. No note was made of where or when it was acquired

but this was presumably after 1857 for it is not included in his

preliminary catalogue compiled in that year.

Fortnum catalogued this as perhaps a handle ft>r a knife~but

itmightalsobeforanotherimplcmcnt~andasltalian,dating

from the end of the sixteenth century, although it seems

possible that it could be later in date.


@@240

240. Handle in the form of a putto,

probably from an inkstand's lid

7.6 cms. (height including tang)

Bronze with a warm chestnut liatural patina and traces of gilding

mostly in the hollows. BraLss partially threaded tang inserted in boy's

upper right thigh. Hollow, lost-wax, cast. Small aperture behind

boy's right knee; a plug apparent in his left breast. Traces of

inscription in white paint on thigh near prong originally reading

'8.437 e'. [Photographed with improvised support. I

I.€nt by C. D. E. Fortnum on 7 January 1888 and given later in the

same year. 8. 437 in his catalogucs. 'Bought in ltaly' according to

notebook catalogue, with no date but pre'suniably after the

compilation in 1857 of his preliminary catalogue, in which it is not

included.

Catalogued by Fortnum, surely correctly, as Italian of the end

t>f the sixteenth century. Hc speculated that it might have

served as a handle or 'may have surmounted an inkstand'. To

this C. F. Bell added (in the large manuscript catalogue):

'probably; a fine inkstand with this cover, dated 1566 is in

the collection of Mr William Newall'. This inkstand was

exhibited at the Royal Academy Winter Exhibition of 1904

(Case 1, n. 3). Figures crowning the cover of an inkstand

could however also be employed for other purposes.


@@241

241. Ornamental foot in the form

of a satyr

9cms. (height)

Bronze with fire-gilding worn t-o reveal a \'Jarm chestnut natural

patina, espei'ially on the projecting thigh aiid elbow, the erect penis,

and portions of the chest. Hollow, presumably lost-wax, cast. A

groove is cut behind the head and below this a wedge of bronze

has been inserted into the hollow back ot'the figure to form t\vo

wings (with t\ro projections from each, perforated for screws)

whereby it could be attached to the corncr t)f a small casket or base

of an item of miniature furniture. Inscribed '8.418. e' in black ink

along figure's back to proper right.

I,cnt by C. D. E. Formum in October 1894 and bcqiieathed in

1899. No. 418 in his catalogues. No pro\Jenance given. Presumably

acquired after the compilation, in 185z ot'his preliminary c€'talogue'

in which it is not included.

The figure might bc dcsigned to appear Io support the lid of

a ca'skct as well as to serve as the foot t]f one. Fortnum

supposed it to be Italian of the fifteenth century, but the

second half of the sixteenth seems in(>re likely. He pointed

out that the satyr might reprcscnt Marsyas awaiting his

gruesome death, but hc does not appear apprehensive or

unhappy and the arms arc not tethered.

242. Cylindrical document holder

decorated with trophies

24.8 crns. (length); 6.6 cms. (diamctcr of the base); 6.5 i'ms.

(diameter of the lid)

'Ciiir bouilli' (leather, soaked, hcated, waxed, and shaped (jvcr a

mould) over wood. The base is a piece of turned wood coloured

black to match the leather. There arc loops in the leather on both

sides of the cylinder presumably for a suspension strap. The leather

has been textured so that the relief ground is granular and the areas

in relief are decorated with gold and with a red pigment-the latter

less evident than the former. The leather has cracked in several

placl,s.

Provcnancc unknown.

The technique of 'cuir bouilli' was familiar in much of Europe

well before 1500 but the style of this piccc, with its cartouche

and suspcnded trophies of three types (crossed quivers,

crossed shields, and a helmet with wcapt]ns), suggests an

origin in Italy in the second half of the sixteenth century.


@@243

243. Salt-cellar in the form of a

kneeling nude youth supporting a

clan shell

27cms. (height); 15 cms. (length); 12.5 cms. (width)

Bronze, with a rich chocolate natural patina and traces of a blackened

varnish. There is some verdigris in the hair over t-he shoulders and

on the underside of the shell, also in the youth's armpit. Hollow,

lost-wax cast. The shell has been cast with the figure, the base is

apparently integral but there is some solder smear below the figure's

right knee and beside his left foot. The cast has been imperfectly

cleaned around the back of.the figurc's head.

Ijcnt in October 1894 by C. D. F.. Fortnum and bequeathed by him

in 1899. No. I 108 in his catalogues. Bought from the Avvocato

Rusca in Florence in 186l-for fl5 according to the notebook

catalogue, but his 'memoranda of prices pald' has 'Bronze salt.

Kneeling figure' by the year 1859 with the price fl6.

See No. 244.


@@244

244. Salt-cellar in the form of a

kneeling nude youth supporting a

clam shell

25 cms. (height); 14.5cms. (length); 12.5 cms. (width)

Bronze, fire-gilt, the gilding much worn to reveal a pale tan natural

patina. Hollow, lost-wax cast. The shell and base arc c'as[ with the

figure. Plugs in the bronze arc now evident, as arc chaplet pins (see

for instance both sides of the figure's left ankle). There are firing

cracks on the top of the figure's back and on his left forearm.

Lent by C,. D. E. Fortnum on 20 Mari'h 1888 and given later in the

same year. No.1109 in his catalogues. Bought from Augusto

Castellani in Rome in 1865 with other bronzes which had belongccl

to his father (see Nos. 232, 245), for £21 (according to notebook

catalogue).

This bronzc is apparently made from the same pattern as

No. 243, although there arc differences in the casting, the

metal, and the finish-the underside of the shell in this case

is also more perfunctory in modelling, but if the same moulds

were used for the wax inodels these would have been rough

and such a difference does not exclude this possibility.

Fortnum believed that his ungilded version was 'the artist's

original from which a scrics had bccn cast and gilded'. Hc

knew also of the pair of figures in the Victoria and Albert

Museum-nos. 629-1865 (formerly Soulages Collection)

and 104-1910 (Salting Bequest). There are minor differences,

in the wrinkling of the shells, aiid the musculature of the

back, for instance, but again they are close enough for the

wax models to have come from the same moulds. Fortnum

also refers to a version sold in London in 1880 for over floo.

Among other gilt bron7.e versions of the figures are those in

the Museo Corrcr in Venice (Bronzi dorati no. 37), in the

Staatliche Muscen, Berlin-Dahlem (M 39/82), in the

Kunsthistorischcs Museum, Vienna (not on display, illustrated

in L. Plo:"sciig' Piccoli bronzi it;aliani del Rinascimento

(Milan, 1930), 3z no. 292, pl. CI,XIX), and in the collection

of Dr A. von Frey, Berlin (L. Planiscig, Vc7Gcz;¢»¢.fc¢c

Bz./d¢¢#c7. dcr Rc7z¢G.jf¢#cc (Vienna, Berlin,1921), 543,

fig. 594). A number have been sold a[ auction (Christic's,

London, 3 July 1985), lot no. I 13; Sotheby's, Ijondon, 28

November 1968, lot no. 46-without the usual (>val base).

C. F. Bell also noted versions in the collections of Otto Beit

and William Newall, the latter (acquired in 1891 frtrm the

Cavendish-Bcntinck Collection) was exhibited at the Royal

Academy in the winter of 1904 (when illustrated), and sold

in 1922 (as lot 80, at Christie's 27-29 June). There is al.so a

smaller variant on the same model in the Victoria and Albert

Museum (631 -1865, from the Soulages Collection) with the

right, rather than the left, arm raised, perhaps devised as a

companion for a figure with a beard and moustache (630-

1865). There are variants in which a bearded and balding

older man supports a shell of which an example is in the

Museo Civico, Brescia; a pair were in the collection of camillo

Castiglioni (L. Planiscig, Co//c2;z.o#c C¢ow¢.//a C¢Jf¢J/G.o7".

(Vienna,1923), no. 50), and one was lot 133 at Christic's,

London, 4 July 1989. In addition there is a poorly modelled

'shell-bearing figure in the Ca d'Oro in Venice in which the

boy's left knee does not touch the base, clumsily stylized water

is pouring from the 'shell, and the oval base is adorned with

vegetation. Finally, a rclated figure of a nude yt>uth nearly

standing upright, but still supporting a clam in the same

position, was in the Cook Collection and in 1952 with the

dealer Hcrbcrt Bier.

Fortnum regarded these figures as Florentine of 1550 and

1560 and 'worthy of and perhaps by Gualiel. or Giaco. Dclla

Pt)rta' and anyway 'clearly work of a masterly hand of the

School of Michclangelo'. J. C. Robinson in his C¢f¢/og#c a/

£¢e So#/¢gGf Co//Gcf¢.o7¢ ((I,ondon, 1856, 124) considered the

pair there as 'Florentinc work circa 1560', which must be the

origin of this idea. Howcvcr, they have generally since bccn

considered as Venetian+)r at least associated with the

ft)llowcrs in Venice of the Florentine Jacopo 'San'sovino. Bode,

Italian Bronz,e Stat:uette5 Of the Renaissa,nce (I,ondon' 1907-

12), ii, pl. CljxII, illustrating the Ashmolean's No. 243,

cla.ssified it as Venetian of about 1575, and I. D. Draper in

his revision of 1980 classified it as probably Vcnetian of the

late sixteenth century. Planiscig (ops. cit.) attributed the

bronzcs to Girolamo Campagna (I 549-e1625) and the

attribution has often been approved (nt>tably by H . Wcihrauch,

E#yop&¢.fc47c Byoce2;cj.f¢f#cffG7¢ (Brunswick,1967),158). It is

based on Campagna's liking for kneeling supporters such as

those angels who suppt>rt the altar of the sacrament in S.

Giuliano, or his pair of angels carrying cornucopia candlesticks

now on an altar of the church of the Carmini in Venice.

Howcvcr, kneeling supporters were popular in Venice

generally at this date-see the clumsy kneeling putti in

No. 235 here, but also, and far more significantly, the paired

ignudi supporting the great pair of andirons in the Museum

of Fine Art, Budapest, and the similar triad supporting the

hardly less splendid andirons in the Mctropolian Museum

(Kress Collection A.1645 A and 8). The youths in the

Metropolitan Museum are sometimes supposed to bc by

Tiziano Aspetti because of the very similarly posed youth in

his documented rclicf of st Daniel being nailed bctwcen

boards (commissioned 1592 and completed by 1593), but

have also been attribiited to Campagna (see C. C. Wilson,

Renaissance Small Bronac Sculptttre . . . at the National

G¢//Gay a/'47? (Washington, DC, 1983),13940). The upper

portions of these latter andirons, including the knccling

supporters, exist in other casts (W. Bode, BG./¢tyer&e ¢cr

Kaiser-Friederick Mu§ettm§, ri.. Bronz,estatttetten. . . (Bcrin aLnd

Lcipzig,1930), n(>. 247). The supporters arc very close in

character and also in size (18 cms. high) to tht>sc supporting

the clam shells, the hair is similarly curled, the muscles are

similarly emphasi7.ed and of similarly dubious anatomy but

impressive elasticity, and the hands pres.sed against the thigh

have the same long fingers with squared off ends that we see

against the clam shells here-a in(>tif reminiscent of Jact>po

Sansovino.

The possibility of a much later date for these salt-cellars

should also be entertained. The supp(]rters recall the pair of

atlantcs who kneel upon the Iowcr of the Dogana da Mar in

Venice supporting the great gilded globe upon which Fortune

flics, the work of'thc founder Bcmardo Falcoiie i'arrviiig out

Giuseppe Benoni's prize-winning design of 1677. But the

model must siircly have bccn made by a grca[ artist and

probably one in the orbit of''Sansovino.

It is also worth observing that some, perhaps many, of the

casts listed in thi's entry arc replicas or fcke'' madc. in the last

century. The cxamplc in the Staatlii'he Muscen, Berlin~

Dahlem, which is slightly smaller than the Ashmolean's

examples, appears to have been distre.ssed and the defects of

the cast especially in the shell while making jt look old also

make it impossible that it has ever bccn used.


@@245

245. Salt-cellar in the form of a

triton blowing on a conch,

supporting a scallop shell, and riding

a tortoise

13.8 cms. (height),11.2 cms. (length); 13.2 cms. (width)

Bronze, fire-gilt, much won to reveal a chocolate brown natural

patina. Hollow, furly thick-walled, lost-wax cast, all in one piece

with the exception of the shell on the triton's back, which was cast

separately, perhaps from nature. Littlc evidence of chasing. '8-110-

G' palnted in black on the hollow of the base moulding to proper

left at the back.

Lent by C. D. E' Fortlium in october 1894 and bequeathed in

1899. No. i Ilo in his catalogucs. Bought from Augusto Castellani

in Rome,1865, for £21 (cf. Nos. 232, 244), according to the

notebook catalogue.

Fortnum considered this as 'a most vigorous and admirable

model full of artistic character and the work of a master hand'.

He thought it probably Vcnctian and of about 1550. In his

large catalogue thcrc is a note that there was, in 1893, a

replica of this bronze in the collection of Henry Pfungst (for

whom see Nos. 201, 203, 233, 234, and 427) but without

the shell on the triton's back. Pfungst must have disposed of

it before 1900 when hc sold his collection to the dealers

Durlacher and A. Wcrthcimer (who then sold it to Pierpont

MorBan) ar\d it is r\ot ir\ the Descriptive Catalogue Of a Small

Collection Principally of Xvth and Xvlth Centttry Bronze5

privately printed shortly before that transaction. The Pfungst

version may be the one now in the Museum fur

Kunsthandwcrk, Frankfurt on Main (no. 7436 displayed with

an attribution to Alessandro Victoria), which is very close to

the Ashmolean version but has no shell and has a higher base

(but of the same pattern). Another version of the figure, but

without either arms or shell, was in Berlin. An ungilded version

of this figure, also without the sheu, but in this case with Ilo

base, was lot 78 at Sotheby's, London, 7 July 1988, with a

companion in a reverse pose~thcsc are possibly ninetccnth-ccntury

casts inodelled on the version now in Frankfurt. A

similar pair of figures (perhaps the same pair) was illustrati.d

by L. Planiscig in his VG7¢cz¢.#7¢¢.fc¢G B¢./d¢¢#c7' de7' RG#¢¢.Jj.¢7?cc

(Vienna, Berlin,1921), 448, figs. 467-8. A variant, which

looks like a ninetccnth-century cast, in which the tritt)n

supports the shell with both hands, exists in several versions-scc,

for example, Kunstgewerbemuseum, West Berlin,

no. 17-18, no. 107 in K. Pech'stein, Bro#2;c" #7?d J}/¢¢c#p#

(Berlin, 1968), with an attribution to Girolamo Campagna.

Tritons of this sort arc not uncommonly employed in

goldsmith's work, and one, in a pose very similar to that in

the Ashmolean's salt-cellar, survives as a support for a nautilus

goblet once in the collection of J. Picrpont Morgan

(Wadsworth Athenaeum,1917.269) by Gcorg Mond of

Dresden (master bcforc 1599, died after 1623) dated to

about 1620-a group of silver gilt, the turtle resting upon

amethyst crystals dcsigned [o simulate foam (no. 20 in the

catalogue of the exhibition /. P¢.capo7¢f Morg¢7¢ Co//Gcfo7., held at the Wadsworth Athcnaeum, Hartford (Conn.), and

elsewhere, in 1987). A figure in this pose is also possible in

Italian ornamental art at any date in the seventccnth or

eighteenth century-the magnificent stand made in Turin in

about 1750 and today in the Victoria and Albert Museum

(W. 34-1946) is a striking example. Fortnum noted that copies

of his salt-cellar were made in silver by Augusto Castellani at

Rome (from whom he bought his example). Castellani could

also have made bronze versions as hc may have done in other

cases (see No. 232).


@@246

246. Three-sided centrepiece

composed of shells, hippocamps,

and marine creatures, crowned by

Neptune

3z4 cms (height); 15.6 cms (height of Neptune including his

base); 9.9 cms (height of each hippocamp); 20.6 cms (maximllm

width of base)

Bron7.e, fire-gilt, with some parts of silver. The three-sided base is

cast in one piece in bronze by the lost-wax method as is evident

from its hollowed interior where the metal has a pale brown natural

patina. To this base, grotesque canine cherubs of cast silver are

soldered (above the curling snouts of the confronted fish). The three

gilt bronze hippocamps (each cast from the same mould and finely

tooled) are bolted to the base, each in two places (three of the six

nuts look original), and so is the central gilt bronze stem which

divides into three strapwork branches. Three more or less identical

fish, cast in silver, are screwed to the three projecting brackets of

the strapwork. Above this arc the three scallop-like shells each

soldered to a leafy centre, all of thin embossed silver. The crowning

gilt bronze figure of Neptune is cast in one piece, with the exception

of his right hand (the join at the wrist is easily seen). The trident is

separately cast. There are a few minor firing cracks and holes in the

bronze. The silver of the minor ornaments is tarnished. The

projecting shells retain much of what is probably an original lustrous

black varnish. '8 /-107/ G' is palnted in white on the interior

of the base. For marks in the silver see below.

Lent by C. D. E. Fortnum in October 1894 and bequeathed in

1899. 8.1107 in his catalogues. Purchased by him using

'Whitehcad' (presumably the dealer) as agent at the sale of the

collection of Matthew Uzielli at Christie's, London, on 18 April

1861 (lot 721) for £27. 'It was previously in the Falcke Collection'

(a fact not noted by Robinson).

Fortnum catalogued this as a salt-cellar or drageoir but

J. C. Robinson in his C¢f#/o¢#c a/£¢e V¢r¢.o#f Wo7ifej a/A#

Forming the Collection of Matthav Uzielli, Esq. Of Hanover

lodgrc, Regc"f'f P¢7i4 (London,1860), no. 678, wisely gave it

the more gcncral description of a centrcpiccc, as well. The

high esteem in which it was held is revealed by the fact that

it was one of the few picccs in the Uzielli Collection which

were illustrated in this catalogue (pl. XI). Fortnum regarded

it as 'perhaps the most elegant in design and as good in

execution and condition as any of these larger salt cellars with

which I am acquainted'.

As Fortnum must have realized, there are a pair of

comparable gilt bronze and silver centrepieccs-generally

regarded as salt-ceuars-in the Soulages Collection (Victoria

and Albert Museum 624-1865), also involving shells,

hippocamps, marine monsters, and scroll-work. They arc

crowned by statuettes of Jupiter and Venus, of similar size

to the Neptune, but with a different base, with similar elegance

of pose, somewhat clumsy extremities, and routine

accessories. The Soulagcs pair have gilt bronze rather than

silver shell contalncrs, but do incorporate grotesque silver

heads like those here, and the hippocamps are similar, although

they arc smaller and now scrvc to support the base. They

havenoclcmentsasprei'isi'intoolingorasspiri[edinc'harai-tcr

as the heads of the hipp.ocamps in the A''hmolcan i'cntrcpicce,

but they ar.e mor: consistcnt in quality and are simpler .ind

more convincing in construction.

There are aspects of the Ashmolean centrepicce which make

it ceftan that it is not in its onginal form. The hippocamps

lookasiftheyw€redesignedtosupportshcllswiththcirhcads

and tails (as in the Soulages vcrsions). More ccrtalnly the

projecting brackets of strapwork were designed to support

something, and yet they cannot bc arranged to coincide with

thc' undersides of the shells. The little silver fish on them now

are crudely bolted into place each with an ugly tail stuck in

the air-again as if' meant as a support. These arc also only

roughly cast, as if intended to bc only half visible. There are

also tiny silver animal heads placed on the strapwork under

the shells where they arc completely invisible. In addition

there is a rough hole in the central portion of the stage of

silver shells for which thcrc is no nced.

Fortnum considered the centrepiccc to bc Venetian of

1550-70, hcrc following Robinson who had catalogued it in

the Uziclli Collection (op. cit.) as 'probably Venetian circa

1570'. One can see from Fortnum's notebook catalogue that

sAlj.r-(:F.Ijl,ARs, cENTREplECF,s, BAslNs

he Inserted '1550-' before '1570' as an afterthought, having

at first simply tran'scribed Robinson. This dating sccms

sensible, although it could certaiiily bc later in date than 1570.

Thc' figlirc type is very characteristic of vcnicc in the late

sixtccnth century (cf. Nos. 22z 228, 86). Thcrc are also

parallels for the grotesque ornament in dccorativc work of

Vcnetian origin, and, most significantly, the hippocamps look

very like the ancestors of the flat brass crcaturcs which still

serve as ornaments on the sides of gondolas. C. F. Bell,

howcvcr, deleted Fortnum's attribution in the large catalogue

and wrote 'Southern Gcrman'. Hc had chscerned the scarcely

lcgible marks tHi the undcrsides of the thrcc shells consisting,

!ie thought, of the initials F. R.' with an object above. These

Initials, according to Marc Rosenberg's Go/drc4%G.ede

"egr42;c¢.c4e# (Frankfurt on Main,1922-8), belonged to an

Augsburg maker, 'but the city's stamp~though not

conclusively resembling either-Iooks more like the monk's

hcadofMunichthananyvariantoftheAugsburgpineapple'.

Thi'evidencci'snotconclusivc:thcrearcotherwaysofrcading

the smudged marks and in any case the silver shells, as has

alread}J been pointed out, may well be additions to the base,

stem, and hippocamps of the original ccntrepiecc.


@@247

@@248

247 and 248. Basin, decorated with

battling sea creatures and an

allegory of Neptune, with a ewer,

decorated with Neptune in triumph

with Amphitrite

50.3-50.5 cms (diameter of the basin); 11.6 cms (diameter of

central boss of basin); 46. I cms (height of ewer)

Silver. The basin (No. 247) is embossed and cha'sed. Some small cast

clcments are attached-notably, in the central boss, the crown held

by the female figure, the coronet above the shield she also supports,

and the trident of Neptune, and, in the frieze, the club and head of

one of the tritons (at 11 o'clock) and the 'spear wielded by the rider

(at 2 o'clock). The body of the ewer (No. 248) is composed of

'several cast pieces chased and soldered together. Some small cast

element:s are attached-notably the coronet on the shield of arms

on the front of the ewer. The handle was cast in three principal parts

(monster, acanthus leaves, and child) with lesser parts (club and

tail) also cast and added. The date 1619 is chased on the shield held

by the triton in the frieze of the basin at 11 o'clock. The rcvcrsc of

the basin is engraved with the coat of arms of the 5th earl of

Shrewsbury impaling those of wcbb (for Barbara Webb daughter

of sir John Webb, Bt., whom he married in ]786) and the earl's

crest appears funtly in the interior of the foot of the ewer. Some

repairs are apparent to the arms of struggling figures at 3 o'clock

on the frieze of the basin where the metal is also slightly perforated.

The plain base to the ewer appears to be an addition probably of

the early nineteenth century.

Placed on loan in the Museum anonymously by ljord de Mauley on

13 July 1971 together with another set of identical design and a

larger and more elaborate ba'sin and ewer dated 1621 and 1622. All

six pieces were cleaned by Kathlecn Western in September and

October 1971 to remove sulphide tarnishing: a thin coat of lacquer

was also applied. Minor repalrs~involving stralghtcning the feet of

the smaller ewers and soldering a loose coronet on the larger cwer-wcre

carried out in the same period by a local silversmith, Anthony

Hawksley.

AIl the loaned Items were withdrawn from exhibition on 12 July

1973, removed on 26 July, and sold at Christie's, London, on 28

November. This basin and cwcr together with its pair formed a

single lot purchased by Artemis Ltd. for £44,000. The Reviewing

Committee for the Export of works of Art, at its meeting on 27

March 1974, stopped the granting of a licence for three months

for one of the pair. By mid-June the Ashmolean had purchased this

pair from Artemis for £30,000. (The other pair was bought by the

City Museum and Art Gallery, Birmingham; the larger pair was

bought by the Victoria and Albcrt Musoum~M.11 and A-1974.)

£15,000 was contributed by the Regional Fund of the Victoria and

Albert Museum, £5,000 by the National Art-Collcct]ons Fund,

£2,000 by the Friends of the Ashmolean, £5,000 came from the

France Bequest, £1,750 from the Central Purchase Fund of the

Museum, and £1,250 from a special grant by the University Chest.

All six items belonged to the 5th earl of shaftesbury (1761-1811)

by 7 November 1807 when Samuel Rogers saw them, as he reported

in a letter of 8 November, 'at Rundalls' (the royal goldsmith,

Rundell, Bridge and Rundcll, where they were perhaps being

repaired). The earl had bcc'n in Italy twenty years before, but the

reference 'suggests a more recent acquisition-the platc' had been

bought for £300 by 'Ijord S ' at Naples (see Macandrew, cited

below). Barbara, the daughter of the carl, mamed in 1814 the Hon

William Francis Spencer Ponsonby, third 'son of the 3rd carl of

Bessborough, and he was created Baron de Mauley in 1838. Thence

theypassedbydescenttothcljorddeMauleywholoanedandsold

them.

Thebasinandewertogethcrwiththeircompanions('sec

above) were published by Hugh Macandrcw in the

Bnfr,I::?i.o_n-¥_ag^azine:o:s?ptueiii;Ti;ii'('G.clicsesHver

on loan to the Ashmolcan Muscum', 611-20). It was an

articlebyMacandrewofthepreviousyear,pubtishingasilver

basinmadeafterthcoflsketchbyBernardoStrozzircccntly

purchased by the Museum ('A Silver Ba'sin Designed by

Strozzi',B#%/¢.cegrfo#"¢g¢2;G.#c,(Jan.1971),4-11),which

hadpromptedtheownertorevealthathehadthcsccxamples

of Genoese silver from the same period. The shields on au

thepiecesaredecoratedwitharmswhich,beingwithout

tincture, cannot be assigned with ccrtainty, but the

cxccedinglywealthyljomclliniisthcmostlikelyfamilyand,

Macandrew speculates, the most likely among them to have

bccnthefirstownerisGiacomoljomcllini'flMoro'(d.1653-

5), a prodigal patron of the arts. The pieces must have been

made for a Genocsc patron: the larger basin and ewer now ln

theVictoriaandAlbenMuseumaredecoratedwiththeBattlc

of the Po, a great Genoese victory, peppered with aflusions

tothcGrimaldi,thegrcatGenoesedynasty,andgiven

SAI,T'CELLARS, CENTREPIECES, BASINS

Genoese marks, while in the boss of the Ashmolcan's basin

and its pair the Genoese landmark of the Torre di Faro is

conspicuous.

Although all six pieces of plate have the same provenance

the smaller sets of basin and ewer arc earlier in date, different

in .style, and mythological and allegorical rather than historical

inmiagery.TheewcrssecmtobedccoratedwiththcTnunph

of Neptune and Amphitrite. Their rctinuc of marine creatures

appears already to have commenced the battle which is

re.presented on the frieze of the basins-hippocamps and

tritons arc evidently quanelling over the possession of nereids.

The child with a club astride the monstrous handles has been

identified as the infant Hercules, but might be intended for

Cupid with the club of Hercules. The marginal bands of

cartouches in the cwcrs are filled with a reclining Mars and a

reclining Venus and Cupid, whflc around the basins these

compartments are occupied by Danae, 0lympias, Ijeda, and

Scmele. A marriage might have been the pretext for this

quagery, but hardly cxplalns the central episode on the basin

in which a female personification, identified by Macandrew as

Victory, is crowned by an angel or genius while she sets a

crown upon the head of Neptune (or just possibly removes

it from hin), while with her other hand she holds the shield

of the family for whom the plate is presuned to have been

made.

The basin based on a sketch by Strozzi mentioned above

which is now in the J. Paul Gctty Muscun, Malibu

(85.DG.8l) thought to bc the work of a Dutch or Flemish craftsman and the five silver reliefs depicting splendid episodes

inthehistoryofthcGenoescSpinolafanilysignedbyMathias

Mclin of Antwerp and dated 1636 (RIjksmuseum,

Alnsterdan, NM 603nd07) are of similar style but superior

quality.ArthurGnmwade,whofirstinrccentdecadcsrealized

the importance of the Ashmolcan basin and cwcr, suspccted

that they might be the work of a northern goldsmith.

Macandrew considered that the style is

markedly Flemish in character, especially in the treatment of the

figuresonthebasin.Ifinhismind'seyethebeholderreducestheir

formstoanoutlineandseesthemintermsofapenandinkdrawing,

then he might well imagine the spirit of van Dyck haunting their

configurations. During this particular period nothing could be more

likelythanforthemtohavebeendesignedeitherbyoneofthelargc

colonyofFlemishartist'slivinginGenoa,orbyaFleminglivingin

his native Antwerp.

The rendering of the fine textured hair of the sea horses,

)urtaposed with the scales of tritons' tails and the rippling

sea, the fine low relief of distant mountains and clouds, the

varictyofthcfruitandvcgetablesinthcswags,areremarkable,

but the expressions of the figures arc somewhat ludicrous, the

actions are often unconvincingly desperate (see especially the

way the ncreid's hair is pulled by the triton on the basin at

12 o'clock, or the way the neck of the hippocanp is gripped

on the ewer), the anatomy of the figures is intermittently

clumsy, and their articulation never as consistently dynamic

as intended. Either the skin of the chaser surpassed that of

the designer of the figures, or the designer ovcrcstinated the

chascr's ability to follow in the figurative part of his modcllo.

Knowledge of this silvcrwork was not confined to Genoa.

Very similar basins and ewers feature in still lives by Meiffren

Conte (e1630-1705)-see M. Fare, Jj¢ N¢f%7'c 7#o7¢e e#

lTy¢7?cG, 2 vols. (Geneva,1962), ii, figs. 198,199, 201, 204,

205, 208, and especially pl. VII. A very sinifar silver platter

signed 'S.B.' and with the date mark of 1621 was lot 1139

at Sothcby's, Monaco, 6 December 1983.


@@249

249. Parade shield decorated with a

frieze of interlaced serpents and a

boss in the form of the head of

Medusa

67 cms (height of shield); 52 cms (width of shield); 34 cms (height

of oval frame around Medusa head)

Iron. Sand-cast. There is no obvious evidence of chiselling. The

border with the serpent fheze is fixed to the oval body by seven

rose-head and eight pyramid-head studs (two studs arc missing).

There arc six smaller rose-head studs on the outside edge of the

border (seventeen are missing). There arc traces of gilding on the

serpents, and on the frame of the Medusa head outside the foliate

band framing it, and remains of gold damdscening in the arabesque

frier,e within this band.

Transferred from the Bodleian Library c. 1930.

The shic[d was attributed to Lucio I'iccinino and dated to

about 1550 by Sir Guy Laking (S#7"ow¢ry G#¢.de (1931, 25).

It has more recently been described as a tournament shield

and attributed to Antonio Piccinino, the famous late

sixteenth-century Milanesc armourer. It is in fact a parade

shield and there is no very close parallel with the suit of

armour made for Alessandro Farnesc and today in the Old

Imperial Armoury, Vienna (nos. Al 132 and 1153), which

has been (perhaps over-confidently) identified with that

mentioned as made for Alessandro Farnesc by Piccinino

(Paolo Morigia, L¢ 7¢o4z./¢.£¢ d¢. Adz./¢»o (Milan,1595), Book

V, cap. XVII). In August 1987 A. V. 8. Norman, then Master

of the Royal Armourics, in addition to cxpres'sing scepticism

concerning the attribution to Piccinino, pointed out that the

shield was unusual in workmanship but 'as far as one can tell

from a photograph, perfectly good'. He suggested a date of

e1540-50.

@@APPENDIX

Italian Furniture in the Ashmolean Museum

@@app1

1. GT¢ffo7¢c of walnut with four panels of blind Gothic tracery

framed with bands of elaborate intarsia. Incised with the

maker's cipher and decorated with arms said to bc of the

Bona and Balamonte families of verona. North Italian,

second half of the fifteenth century. A. G. 8. Russell

Bequest, 1958. Bought by him from Rogers, Chapman

and Thomas of 125 Glouccstcr Road, I.{)ndon SWz on

27 Novcmbcr 1924 for f l6. There is a similar c¢jTo7¢c,

presumably froin the same workshop, in the Bayerischcs

National Museum, Munich (69/47).

@@app2

2. Cupboaj-d of walnut with twt> dot>rs, crowned by a

dcntilled c(>rnice, supported on bracket feet. The doors

rctaln original wire hinges. Late fifteenth or early sixteenth

century. A. G. 8. Russell Bequest, 1958. Bought by him

from G. Pallotti of via Rondinelli, Florence, on 8 May

1924 for 2,000 lire (£20 8s. 8d.).

@@app3

3. Chair of curule form of iron and brass. Italian, probably

of the mid-sixteenth century. Purchased 1960. Other

chairs of similar form are illustrated in F. Schottmriller, I

mobili e l'abitazione del Rinascimento in Italia (Srfuttg;a'rt>

1928), 174, B#7i/¢.7¢gfo" A4¢g¢2;¢.#c (Sept. 1971), p. xlviii,

and Cop?7}o¢.j:fG#r (Feb.1981). The stamped pattern on the

iron is typical of Florentine forges.

@@app4

4. C¢j:To»c of walnut ornamented with shields and masks.

Mid-sixteenth century. Cat. No. 206.

@@app55

5. C¢j:j'o79e of walnut ornamented with acanthus at the

corners. Mid-or late sixteenth century. Cat. No. 207.

@@app6

6. Two-stage cupboard of walnut ornamented with terminal

caryatids. Second half of the sixteenth century. Cat.

No. 205.

@@app7

7. Casket of walnut with lion's paw feet, ornamcnted with

curing strapwork etc. Second half of the sixtccnth century.

Cat. No. 211.

@@app8

8. Casket with lion's paw feet, ornamcnted with scales etc.

Ijate sixteenth or early scvcntccnth century. Cat. P\To. 212.

@@app9

9. Casket probably of poplar with applied winged masks and

sirens. I,ate sixteenth or carly scventcenth century. Cat.

No. 210.

@@app10

10. Stipo of rosewood, ivory, and ebony in the form of a

miniature temple decorated with scenes from the New

Testament and the Trojan War. Inscribed as by Theodore

de Voghel and dated 1593. Cat. No.105.

@@app11

11. C¢ffo7zc of walnut ormmcnted with harpies at the corners

and with intarsia. Ijate sixteenth or scvcnteenth century.

Cat. No. 208.

@@app13

12. High-backed chair of maple or bccch ornamcnted with

dolphins and si'rolling foliage. Cat. No. 214.

I 3. High-backed chair of maple ornamented with scrolls and

cornucopia. Cat. No. 215.

@@app14

14. Cabinet of ebony and P¢.cfr¢ d#7r¢ with ormolu mounts,

st.me t>f them attributed to the workshop of G. 8. Foggini.

Florentine, sixteenth century (Hebcrden Coin Room).

Cat. Nos. 35, 63.

@@app15

15. Three side chairs t)f beech cntircly gilded, carved with

cockle-shells, weedy fronds, and dolpins.172540. Cat.

Nos. 216, 2'1z 218.

@@app16

16. Ijarge wall bracket (of pine?) previously gilded, with a

rectangular top above complex stepped mouldings-gg

and dart (of two sizes), vitruvian scroll, dentils, etc'

Probably eighteenth century. At present employed to

support the terracotta P¢.Gfc}. (Cat. No. 93).

@@app17

17. Wall bracket of pine, water gilded, with an approximately

square top with curved front corners, breaking forward in

the centre, above scrolls of complex form. At present

employed to support the bust of a cardinal attributed to

Legros (Cat. No. 53).

@@app18

18. Writing desk in the form of a 4oov¢e' chest of drawers with

two large and two small drawers below a scparatc top with

a slope dropping to reveal eight small and one large drawers

and pigeonholes, the central one of which conceals a secret

drawer. The carcass of pine, veneered with walnut, framed

with walnut crossbanding, the slope of quarter-venccred

figured walnut; with ormolu sabots and espagnolettes, also

applied foliatc ormolu ornament which forms handles for

the chest of drawers. Mid-eighteenth century. Bought by

C. D. F,. Fortnum in Florence in 1875, and bequeathed

by him 1899 (although his large catalogue is not annotated

to this effect).

@@app19

19. Masive rectangular mahogany bookcase of two stages

bearing the gilt metal monogram of Maria I,uisa di

Borbone and incorporating four terminal busts of a

bearded hero or deity in bronze. e1820 Lucca. Cat.

No.170 (Department of Antiquities).

@@app20

20. Casket of rosewood, ebony, and silver with three

compartments. Perhaps nineteenth century. Cat. No. 213.

21. C¢j:j.o#c of walnut ornamented with gadrooning and

fluting. Florentine, third quarter of the nineteenth century,

in the style of the second half of the sixteenth century. Cat.

No. 209.